
		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0001 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:05 ',
			header: '
A4124 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  PM-BUDGET-NYT     06-11 1608
',
			slug: '',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; For THURSDAY PMs &LR;

   Here are the top news stories from The New York Times News
Service for PMs of Thursday, June 11.

   The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time.
To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for reruns
on AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPI
DataNews.

   &UR; INTERNATIONAL _ (Moved in ``i'' category)  &LR;

   MEXICO-STING (Washington) _ It was the longest-running sting
operation in U.S. history. More than 100 Mexican bankers were
arrested on U.S. soil as part of an elaborately choreographed sting
that reached from San Diego to Aruba, the end of what was called
one of the most audacious undercover campaigns that U.S.
law-enforcement agents have ever waged against Latin American drug
cartels. But less than a month later, the three-year investigation
appears likely to make history less for the drug-money laundering
system it smashed than for the diplomatic uproar it inspired. By
Tim Golden.

   ASIA-ECON-II (Seoul, South Korea) _ The bottom line across most
of Asia, from the office suites of Japan to the peasant villages of
Indonesia, has always been that resources are allocated
disproportionately to men and boys. In times of bounty, there are
plenty of leftovers for women; in lean times, it is women who are
the leanest of all. Now, according to aid organizations and
scholars, as resources become more scarce in Asia they are being
shifted in favor of males. Second of a two-part series. Special
report by Nicholas D. Kristof.

   RUSSIA-IMF (Moscow) _ The IMF has told the Yeltsin government it
must fulfill a series of tough demands before it can tap billions
of dollars in extra assistance. By Michael R. Gordon.

   SAFRICA-TRUTH-PANEL (Cape Town, South Africa) _ In testimony
before the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, a parade of
witnesses has made clear that undetectable ways of murdering
political opponents was a high priority of a chemical and
biological warfare campaign during the apartheid era. By Suzanne
Daley.

   CHINA-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The Senate Intelligence Committee
holds first open hearing into satellite export policies of Reagan,
Bush and Clinton administrations. Also, the House is likely to
announce details on its select committee into China allegations. By
Eric Schmitt.

   KOSOVO-TALKS (Paris) _ Trying to increase pressure on Serbia to
end military sweeps against ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, officials
from the United States, Russia and four European countries agree
that President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia was primarily
responsible for the violence. By Craig R. Whitney.

   AIR-FRANCE-STRIKE (Paris) _ Air France begins limping back
toward normal operations after striking pilots accepted a
seven-year pay freeze, ending a strike that had grounded most
flights since the beginning of the month. By Craig R. Whitney.

   &UR; NATIONAL _ GENERAL (Moved in ``a'' category) &LR;

   SCI-TB-GENE (Undated) _ Scientists have broken the code of the
tuberculosis bacterium, a germ that kills more people in the world
than any other infectious agent. The advance is likely to open up
new approaches for developing drugs and vaccines against the
microbe, and to reinvigorate research efforts in what has been up
to now a difficult and slow moving field. By Nicholas Wade.

   WIS-SCHOOL-VOUCHERS (Undated) _ In the most significant legal
decision yet on the growing use of school vouchers, the Wisconsin
Supreme Court rules that the city of Milwaukee can spend taxpayer
money to send pupils to parochial or other religious schools. By
Ethan Bronner.

   SCI-GIANT-SQUID (New York) _ Forget Godzilla. A real sea monster
arrived in Manhattan Wednesday, slimy and long, a colossus of the
deep famous in lore and for centuries the stuff of nightmares. A
giant squid, one of the rarest and least-understood animals on the
planet, was flown from New Zealand to Kennedy Airport, and then
trucked to the American Museum of Natural History. The beast had
been frozen solid. By William J. Broad. (With photo.)

   TEXAS-DRAGGING-DEATH (Jasper, Texas) _ On the mood in Jasper
after three white men were charged with chaining a disabled black
man to the back of their pickup truck and dragging him to his death
along a dirt road.

   KAN-GRAIN-ELEVATOR (Haysville, Kan.) _ escuers trying to reach
four men trapped by a grain elevator explosion found two bodies
today, and their hopes of finding the other two alive were dimmed
by a new obstacle _ five to six tons of steel girders and concrete.
(With graphic.)

   NY-FIREFIGHTER-FUNERAL (Farmingdale, N.Y.) _ There was familiar
pageantry Wednesday, a sea of dark suits and white gloves as
thousands of somber firefighters paid homage to a fallen colleague.
By Monte Williams. (With photo.)

   &UR; WASHINGTON _ (Moved in ``w'' category)  &LR;

   TOBACCO-MARRIAGE (Washington) _ The Senate votes to use part of
the money that would be raised from higher cigarette prices to give
an income-tax break to married couples with low and moderate
incomes. By David E. Rosenbaum.

   TOBACCO-LOTT (Washington) _ When the anti-smoking issue came
before Congress last year, Sen. Trent Lott had an ethical dilemma:
His brother-in-law Richard Scruggs was one of the lawyers who had
negotiated the tobacco settlement and stood to make millions from
any legislation. So the Senate majority leader turned the issue
over to his majority whip, and to this day he carefully votes
present on any amendments that might affect the attorney's fees to
come out of the deal. But he has now emerged as one of the critical
players who will determine the fate of anti-tobacco legislation
this year. So some days he proclaims the tobacco legislation near
death. On others, he smoothes the way for conservatives to add tax
cuts and anti-drug amendments that could help them swallow the
bill. By Alison Mitchell. With photo.

   BANKRUPTCY-BILL (Washington) _ The House passed far-reaching
legislation Wednesday to tighten the bankruptcy laws for the first
time in a generation, in an effort to discourage the growing
practice of consumers' declaring personal bankruptcy to erase their
debts. By Katharine Q. Seelye.

   &UR; BUSINESS DAY _ (Moved in ``f'' category)  &LR;

   FED-GREENSPAN (Washington) _ With a mixture of pride and
puzzlement, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan on Wednesday declared the
economy to be in extraordinarily good shape and signaled to
investors that he saw no immediate need to make a preemptive strike
against inflation by raising interest rates. By Richard W.
Stevenson.

   CREDIT (New York) _ Long-term interest rates fell sharply
Wednesday as the Asian financial crisis and continuing problems in
Russia apparently sent more foreigners to the haven of the U.S.
bond market. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve
Board, added to the rally when he indicated, in an upbeat
assessment of the economic outlook, that an interest-rate increase
to slow economic growth was not imminent. By Jonathan Fuerbringer.

   SILICON-POLITICS _ A bill moving through Congress that would
limit investors' ability to file class-action securities-fraud
lawsuits illustrates the growing political clout of the companies
in Silicon Valley. By Leslie Eaton. (With graphic.)

   EMPLOYEE-AIRFARES _ In one of the first attempts by major
companies to counter the high air fares charged by the major
airlines, Chrysler Corp. and General Motors Corp. are near an
agreement to pay a monthly fee for five years to Pro Air, a
start-up airline based in Detroit, in exchange for unlimited
passage on the carrier for their employees. By Laurence Zuckerman.

   GM-STRIKE (Detroit) _ A strike by 3,400 workers at a General
Motors Corp. metal-stamping factory has closed seven assembly
plants from Kansas to Canada, idled 18,070 workers and quieted cash
registers at nearly every business in Flint, the gritty Michigan
union town where the walkout began six days ago. By Nicole
Christian. (With graphic.)

   JAPAN-MARKETPLACE _ While economists argue about when and how
the Japanese government might act to reverse the nation's economic
slide, they say that even if the government takes decisive action,
the yen will still plunge. By Gretchen Morgenson.

   DRUGS-ECONSCENE _ If the war on drugs is indeed a battle of good
vs. evil, then Satan is gaining some impressive allies. An open
letter to the U.N. secretary-general, on the occasion of the
General Assembly's special session on drugs, asserts that ``the
global war on drugs is now causing more harm than drug abuse
itself.'' By Peter Passell.

   &UR; COMMENTARY (Moved in ``k'' category)  &LR;

   Bob Herbert's ``In America'' (HERBERT-COLUMN) and William
Safire's ``Essay'' (SAFIRE-COLUMN).

   &UR; SPORTS (Moved in ``s'' category) &LR;

   BKN-BULL-JAZZ (Chicago) _ Utah at Chicago, Bulls win 86-82 to
take a 3-1 lead in the best-of-seven series. By Mike Wise.

   BBA-YANKS-EXPOS (Montreal) _ Yankees top Montreal, 6-2. By
Buster Olney.

   BBA-YANKS-HERNANDEZ (Montreal) _ In two major league outings,
Orlando ``El Duque'' Hernandez has pitched with texture, power,
feel and smarts. By Buster Olney.

   BBN-METS-DEVILRAYS (New York) _ Tampa Bay at the Mets, New York
wins 3-2. By Jaosn Diamos.

   SOC-VECSEY-COLUMN (Paris) _ Sports of The Times column on the
World Cup opener and the phenomenon of Brazil in the World Cup. By
George Vecsey.

   SOC-WORLDCUP (Paris) _ Action at the World Cup soccer matches.
By Jere Longman.

   &UR; NYT News Service &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '
 PM-BUDGET-NYT 
 (th) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; For THURSDAY PMs &LR;

   Here are the top news stories from The New York Times News
Service for PMs of Thursday, June 11.

   The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time.
To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for reruns
on AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPI
DataNews.

   &UR; INTERNATIONAL _ (Moved in ``i'' category)  &LR;

   MEXICO-STING (Washington) _ It was the longest-running sting
operation in U.S. history. More than 100 Mexican bankers were
arrested on U.S. soil as part of an elaborately choreographed sting
that reached from San Diego to Aruba, the end of what was called
one of the most audacious undercover campaigns that U.S.
law-enforcement agents have ever waged against Latin American drug
cartels. But less than a month later, the three-year investigation
appears likely to make history less for the drug-money laundering
system it smashed than for the diplomatic uproar it inspired. By
Tim Golden.

   ASIA-ECON-II (Seoul, South Korea) _ The bottom line across most
of Asia, from the office suites of Japan to the peasant villages of
Indonesia, has always been that resources are allocated
disproportionately to men and boys. In times of bounty, there are
plenty of leftovers for women; in lean times, it is women who are
the leanest of all. Now, according to aid organizations and
scholars, as resources become more scarce in Asia they are being
shifted in favor of males. Second of a two-part series. Special
report by Nicholas D. Kristof.

   RUSSIA-IMF (Moscow) _ The IMF has told the Yeltsin government it
must fulfill a series of tough demands before it can tap billions
of dollars in extra assistance. By Michael R. Gordon.

   SAFRICA-TRUTH-PANEL (Cape Town, South Africa) _ In testimony
before the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, a parade of
witnesses has made clear that undetectable ways of murdering
political opponents was a high priority of a chemical and
biological warfare campaign during the apartheid era. By Suzanne
Daley.

   CHINA-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The Senate Intelligence Committee
holds first open hearing into satellite export policies of Reagan,
Bush and Clinton administrations. Also, the House is likely to
announce details on its select committee into China allegations. By
Eric Schmitt.

   KOSOVO-TALKS (Paris) _ Trying to increase pressure on Serbia to
end military sweeps against ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, officials
from the United States, Russia and four European countries agree
that President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia was primarily
responsible for the violence. By Craig R. Whitney.

   AIR-FRANCE-STRIKE (Paris) _ Air France begins limping back
toward normal operations after striking pilots accepted a
seven-year pay freeze, ending a strike that had grounded most
flights since the beginning of the month. By Craig R. Whitney.

   &UR; NATIONAL _ GENERAL (Moved in ``a'' category) &LR;

   SCI-TB-GENE (Undated) _ Scientists have broken the code of the
tuberculosis bacterium, a germ that kills more people in the world
than any other infectious agent. The advance is likely to open up
new approaches for developing drugs and vaccines against the
microbe, and to reinvigorate research efforts in what has been up
to now a difficult and slow moving field. By Nicholas Wade.

   WIS-SCHOOL-VOUCHERS (Undated) _ In the most significant legal
decision yet on the growing use of school vouchers, the Wisconsin
Supreme Court rules that the city of Milwaukee can spend taxpayer
money to send pupils to parochial or other religious schools. By
Ethan Bronner.

   SCI-GIANT-SQUID (New York) _ Forget Godzilla. A real sea monster
arrived in Manhattan Wednesday, slimy and long, a colossus of the
deep famous in lore and for centuries the stuff of nightmares. A
giant squid, one of the rarest and least-understood animals on the
planet, was flown from New Zealand to Kennedy Airport, and then
trucked to the American Museum of Natural History. The beast had
been frozen solid. By William J. Broad. (With photo.)

   TEXAS-DRAGGING-DEATH (Jasper, Texas) _ On the mood in Jasper
after three white men were charged with chaining a disabled black
man to the back of their pickup truck and dragging him to his death
along a dirt road.

   KAN-GRAIN-ELEVATOR (Haysville, Kan.) _ escuers trying to reach
four men trapped by a grain elevator explosion found two bodies
today, and their hopes of finding the other two alive were dimmed
by a new obstacle _ five to six tons of steel girders and concrete.
(With graphic.)

   NY-FIREFIGHTER-FUNERAL (Farmingdale, N.Y.) _ There was familiar
pageantry Wednesday, a sea of dark suits and white gloves as
thousands of somber firefighters paid homage to a fallen colleague.
By Monte Williams. (With photo.)

   &UR; WASHINGTON _ (Moved in ``w'' category)  &LR;

   TOBACCO-MARRIAGE (Washington) _ The Senate votes to use part of
the money that would be raised from higher cigarette prices to give
an income-tax break to married couples with low and moderate
incomes. By David E. Rosenbaum.

   TOBACCO-LOTT (Washington) _ When the anti-smoking issue came
before Congress last year, Sen. Trent Lott had an ethical dilemma:
His brother-in-law Richard Scruggs was one of the lawyers who had
negotiated the tobacco settlement and stood to make millions from
any legislation. So the Senate majority leader turned the issue
over to his majority whip, and to this day he carefully votes
present on any amendments that might affect the attorney's fees to
come out of the deal. But he has now emerged as one of the critical
players who will determine the fate of anti-tobacco legislation
this year. So some days he proclaims the tobacco legislation near
death. On others, he smoothes the way for conservatives to add tax
cuts and anti-drug amendments that could help them swallow the
bill. By Alison Mitchell. With photo.

   BANKRUPTCY-BILL (Washington) _ The House passed far-reaching
legislation Wednesday to tighten the bankruptcy laws for the first
time in a generation, in an effort to discourage the growing
practice of consumers' declaring personal bankruptcy to erase their
debts. By Katharine Q. Seelye.

   &UR; BUSINESS DAY _ (Moved in ``f'' category)  &LR;

   FED-GREENSPAN (Washington) _ With a mixture of pride and
puzzlement, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan on Wednesday declared the
economy to be in extraordinarily good shape and signaled to
investors that he saw no immediate need to make a preemptive strike
against inflation by raising interest rates. By Richard W.
Stevenson.

   CREDIT (New York) _ Long-term interest rates fell sharply
Wednesday as the Asian financial crisis and continuing problems in
Russia apparently sent more foreigners to the haven of the U.S.
bond market. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve
Board, added to the rally when he indicated, in an upbeat
assessment of the economic outlook, that an interest-rate increase
to slow economic growth was not imminent. By Jonathan Fuerbringer.

   SILICON-POLITICS _ A bill moving through Congress that would
limit investors' ability to file class-action securities-fraud
lawsuits illustrates the growing political clout of the companies
in Silicon Valley. By Leslie Eaton. (With graphic.)

   EMPLOYEE-AIRFARES _ In one of the first attempts by major
companies to counter the high air fares charged by the major
airlines, Chrysler Corp. and General Motors Corp. are near an
agreement to pay a monthly fee for five years to Pro Air, a
start-up airline based in Detroit, in exchange for unlimited
passage on the carrier for their employees. By Laurence Zuckerman.

   GM-STRIKE (Detroit) _ A strike by 3,400 workers at a General
Motors Corp. metal-stamping factory has closed seven assembly
plants from Kansas to Canada, idled 18,070 workers and quieted cash
registers at nearly every business in Flint, the gritty Michigan
union town where the walkout began six days ago. By Nicole
Christian. (With graphic.)

   JAPAN-MARKETPLACE _ While economists argue about when and how
the Japanese government might act to reverse the nation's economic
slide, they say that even if the government takes decisive action,
the yen will still plunge. By Gretchen Morgenson.

   DRUGS-ECONSCENE _ If the war on drugs is indeed a battle of good
vs. evil, then Satan is gaining some impressive allies. An open
letter to the U.N. secretary-general, on the occasion of the
General Assembly's special session on drugs, asserts that ``the
global war on drugs is now causing more harm than drug abuse
itself.'' By Peter Passell.

   &UR; COMMENTARY (Moved in ``k'' category)  &LR;

   Bob Herbert's ``In America'' (HERBERT-COLUMN) and William
Safire's ``Essay'' (SAFIRE-COLUMN).

   &UR; SPORTS (Moved in ``s'' category) &LR;

   BKN-BULL-JAZZ (Chicago) _ Utah at Chicago, Bulls win 86-82 to
take a 3-1 lead in the best-of-seven series. By Mike Wise.

   BBA-YANKS-EXPOS (Montreal) _ Yankees top Montreal, 6-2. By
Buster Olney.

   BBA-YANKS-HERNANDEZ (Montreal) _ In two major league outings,
Orlando ``El Duque'' Hernandez has pitched with texture, power,
feel and smarts. By Buster Olney.

   BBN-METS-DEVILRAYS (New York) _ Tampa Bay at the Mets, New York
wins 3-2. By Jaosn Diamos.

   SOC-VECSEY-COLUMN (Paris) _ Sports of The Times column on the
World Cup opener and the phenomenon of Brazil in the World Cup. By
George Vecsey.

   SOC-WORLDCUP (Paris) _ Action at the World Cup soccer matches.
By Jere Longman.

   &UR; NYT News Service &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0002 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:20 ',
			header: '
A4130 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BKN-BULSS-JAZZ-NYT &LR;      06-11 0829
',
			slug: ' BC-BKN-BULSS-JAZZ-NYT ',
			headline: '
BULLS TOP JAZZ 86-82, TAKE 3-GAME LEAD 
',
			trailer: '
   CHICAGO _ Karl Malone had an uncontested layup in the first
quarter. None of the Chicago Bulls were within two feet of him, but
he hurried the shot and the ball came off the front of the rim.

   With each game, the footsteps grow louder and louder for the
Utah Jazz.

   It seems no one can stop the Chicago Bulls from stampeding
toward their sixth championship in eight seasons. Least of all the
once-mighty Jazz, which was beaten in Game 4 of the National
Basketball Association finals Wednesday night, 86-82.

   The Bulls will try to win their third consecutive title on
Friday night in Game 5 at the United Center, where they have won
two games in a row with stingy defensive efforts.

   It does not look good. No team has ever recovered from a
three-games-to-one deficit in the finals, let alone done it on the
Bulls' home floor. Chicago is 9-1 on the United Center floor in the
playoffs this season.

   Michael Jordan was his usual inspiring presence, finishing with
34 points, including a spinning, flip-it-up-and-pray layup at the
halftime buzzer.

   Scottie Pippen was just as impressive, hitting a barrage of
3-pointers in the first half and continuing to turn the Utah
offense into a disoriented scramble.

   And Dennis Rodman hit four free throws in the closing minutes to
help seal the Bulls victory.

   Malone (21 points, 14 rebounds), John Stockton (7 points, 13
assists) and their supporting cast play for their season in less
than 48 hours, their last chance to return to the Delta Center in
Salt Lake City for Game 6 on Sunday.

   Curiously, with Chicago leading by 64-57, Utah Coach Jerry Sloan
took Malone out of the game to rest just as Jordan returned for the
Bulls. With Utah's season on the line, the Jazz lineup featured the
reserves Chris Morris, Antoine Carr, Howard Eisley and Shandon
Anderson along with a lone starter, Bryon Russell.

   In many ways, the Jazz's bench had carried Utah this far. But in
the last three games, it was no match for anything the Bulls
countered with.

   Eisley gave the Jazz a little lift in the third quarter, driving
the lane and upsetting the double-teaming schemes of the Bulls.

   But Pippen made his fifth 3-pointer of the game at the end of
the third quarter to send Chicago into the final period ahead by
61-57. A 4-point margin may not seem like much, but in this game
each possession was precious, each point crucial.

   The Bulls' defensive intensity made it look like a 10-point
bulge. Again, Chicago dismantled the best-shooting team in the
game, weapon by weapon. Jeff Hornacek did not have three inches to
release his shot. Russell was at a loss when he went to the basket
and Stockton could not get around the long reach of Ron Harper.

   The Bulls again took away what the Jazz does best, the
pick-and-roll play that paved the way for Utah's Western Conference
title run. Without it, Stockton and Malone are relegated to being
two aging All-Stars unable to create their own shot.

   The pace fluctuated between wild and frenetic, with the
officiating crew letting the teams hack each other under the
basket. The style favored the Bulls, who simply made the Jazz panic
in transition.

   Utah trailed by 1 point midway through the third quarter, yet
Russell promptly missed two free throws and Malone missed his third
layup under the rim. Chicago converted both possessions and took
the ball away from Adam Keefe the next time Utah had the ball.

   The pressure of the Bulls' defense frayed the Jazz's nerves, and
suddenly Chicago had taken a 6-point lead. Just as they had a year
ago, the Utah players began to fall apart with a tantalizing
opportunity in their wake.

   If that were not enough, they were also trying to overcome the
perception that they did not belong after what happened on Sunday.

   The Jazz was trying to rebound from the worst offensive output
since the league adopted the 24-second shot clock. If Utah's
54-point debacle in Game 3 was not enough motivation, the Jazz
could point toward Chicago's apparent lack of interest in the
series.

   Rodman went to Detroit for a professional wrestling gig instead
of practicing with the Bulls on Monday, a move that drew the ire of
Sloan and his players. They did not feel respected as an opponent.

   Moreover, they remembered Jordan, Harper and Pippen raising
their arms to the roof in celebration as the Game 3 rout was on.

   ``I don't think they're taking us serious at all,'' Malone said.
``When you see things like that, it makes you want to come back and
play hard.''

   Added Anderson: ``It's just in their attitude when we play. It's
a lack of respect. I think they're undermining us as basketball
players, telling us, `We don't have any respect for you guys and
you don't have any reason being here.' That's something that we as
a team have to step up and attack.'' &QL;
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 By MIKE WISE    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   CHICAGO _ Karl Malone had an uncontested layup in the first
quarter. None of the Chicago Bulls were within two feet of him, but
he hurried the shot and the ball came off the front of the rim.

   With each game, the footsteps grow louder and louder for the
Utah Jazz.

   It seems no one can stop the Chicago Bulls from stampeding
toward their sixth championship in eight seasons. Least of all the
once-mighty Jazz, which was beaten in Game 4 of the National
Basketball Association finals Wednesday night, 86-82.

   The Bulls will try to win their third consecutive title on
Friday night in Game 5 at the United Center, where they have won
two games in a row with stingy defensive efforts.

   It does not look good. No team has ever recovered from a
three-games-to-one deficit in the finals, let alone done it on the
Bulls' home floor. Chicago is 9-1 on the United Center floor in the
playoffs this season.

   Michael Jordan was his usual inspiring presence, finishing with
34 points, including a spinning, flip-it-up-and-pray layup at the
halftime buzzer.

   Scottie Pippen was just as impressive, hitting a barrage of
3-pointers in the first half and continuing to turn the Utah
offense into a disoriented scramble.

   And Dennis Rodman hit four free throws in the closing minutes to
help seal the Bulls victory.

   Malone (21 points, 14 rebounds), John Stockton (7 points, 13
assists) and their supporting cast play for their season in less
than 48 hours, their last chance to return to the Delta Center in
Salt Lake City for Game 6 on Sunday.

   Curiously, with Chicago leading by 64-57, Utah Coach Jerry Sloan
took Malone out of the game to rest just as Jordan returned for the
Bulls. With Utah's season on the line, the Jazz lineup featured the
reserves Chris Morris, Antoine Carr, Howard Eisley and Shandon
Anderson along with a lone starter, Bryon Russell.

   In many ways, the Jazz's bench had carried Utah this far. But in
the last three games, it was no match for anything the Bulls
countered with.

   Eisley gave the Jazz a little lift in the third quarter, driving
the lane and upsetting the double-teaming schemes of the Bulls.

   But Pippen made his fifth 3-pointer of the game at the end of
the third quarter to send Chicago into the final period ahead by
61-57. A 4-point margin may not seem like much, but in this game
each possession was precious, each point crucial.

   The Bulls' defensive intensity made it look like a 10-point
bulge. Again, Chicago dismantled the best-shooting team in the
game, weapon by weapon. Jeff Hornacek did not have three inches to
release his shot. Russell was at a loss when he went to the basket
and Stockton could not get around the long reach of Ron Harper.

   The Bulls again took away what the Jazz does best, the
pick-and-roll play that paved the way for Utah's Western Conference
title run. Without it, Stockton and Malone are relegated to being
two aging All-Stars unable to create their own shot.

   The pace fluctuated between wild and frenetic, with the
officiating crew letting the teams hack each other under the
basket. The style favored the Bulls, who simply made the Jazz panic
in transition.

   Utah trailed by 1 point midway through the third quarter, yet
Russell promptly missed two free throws and Malone missed his third
layup under the rim. Chicago converted both possessions and took
the ball away from Adam Keefe the next time Utah had the ball.

   The pressure of the Bulls' defense frayed the Jazz's nerves, and
suddenly Chicago had taken a 6-point lead. Just as they had a year
ago, the Utah players began to fall apart with a tantalizing
opportunity in their wake.

   If that were not enough, they were also trying to overcome the
perception that they did not belong after what happened on Sunday.

   The Jazz was trying to rebound from the worst offensive output
since the league adopted the 24-second shot clock. If Utah's
54-point debacle in Game 3 was not enough motivation, the Jazz
could point toward Chicago's apparent lack of interest in the
series.

   Rodman went to Detroit for a professional wrestling gig instead
of practicing with the Bulls on Monday, a move that drew the ire of
Sloan and his players. They did not feel respected as an opponent.

   Moreover, they remembered Jordan, Harper and Pippen raising
their arms to the roof in celebration as the Game 3 rout was on.

   ``I don't think they're taking us serious at all,'' Malone said.
``When you see things like that, it makes you want to come back and
play hard.''

   Added Anderson: ``It's just in their attitude when we play. It's
a lack of respect. I think they're undermining us as basketball
players, telling us, `We don't have any respect for you guys and
you don't have any reason being here.' That's something that we as
a team have to step up and attack.'' &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0003 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:25 ',
			header: '
A4134 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BKN-ARATON-COLUMN-NYT     06-11 0797
',
			slug: ' BC-BKN-ARATON-COLUMN-NYT ',
			headline: '
SPORTS COLUMN: KUKOC IS PEACEMAKER FOR BIG 3 TO CONTINUE 
',
			trailer: '
   CHICAGO _ It was a good thing that the Chicago Bulls had another
game to win Wednesday night against the Utah Jazz. One more day off
to reflect on the wonderfulness of a 42-point massacre, and they
might have staged a team love-in, or arranged a roast for Jerry
Krause.

   Four games into this sixth NBA finals, the mirror suddenly
presents the prettiest face the Bulls have seen in months. Now
leading the Jazz by three games to one after Wednesday night's
86-82 victory at the United Center, the Bulls have to wonder where
those bags under their eyes have gone. Feeling sprightly again,
potent, there was talk of tolerance, of mutual respect, of renewed
marital vows.

   Michael Jordan has proclaimed the Bulls' swagger to be back.
Phil Jackson understands Dennis Rodman's pain, and was rewarderd
with crucial free throws by Rodman at the game's end Wednesday
night. Scottie Pippen has discussed a scenario under which he might
stay.

   And they all are paying homage to Toni Kukoc, who has long been
the embodiment of their collective resentment for Krause, the
general manager who only wanted them to reach down and give him an
occasional high-five.

   The stout former baseball scout sprinted after Kukoc all over
Europe while he had a triple-title team back home, paid him more
than either Jordan and Pippen was making and spent the next five
years pulling darts out of his behind.

   When it came to Kukoc, Zen Coach Jackson communed more like
Drill Sergeant Knight, yanking this sensitive but talented Croatian
in and out for having the audacity to not be in the defensive
league of Jordan and Pippen, who are merely two of the best in the
history of the game.

   All of a sudden, after replacing Rodman as a starter with Kukoc
for the Indiana series and sticking with him in the finals, here
was Jackson calling Krause's guy the ``X factor'' on a team as
popular as ``The X-Files.''

   Added Jackson, ``If he plays well, we're going to win the
championship.''

   Figurative high-five, Krause.

   Could this be the signaling of an inevitable thaw in which all
of the Bulls' powers-that-be sit cross-legged in a circle by a
post-season campfire and join hands to sing ``We Are the
Champions?'' This is just a guess, but since Jordan himself insists
he has no idea where this is going, mine has to be as good as his.
And it is that the recent emergence of Kukoc is Chicago's hope for
another Bulls run next season. He is the olive branch to Krause
that could allow everyone to save face and continue to coexist.

   Management's argument for cutting Pippen loose and giving Jordan
no reason to return has been its reluctance to commit long-term
megamillions to a player who will be 33 by the start of the next
season. But Pippen has continued to flourish, his long-striding,
roaming defense a weapon that in Game 3 enfeebled the best-executed
offense in the National Basketball Association. Jordan, at 35, gets
tired when physically pressed at both ends for 40 minutes, but he
is still the game's best player. Mix in a more confident,
consistent and completely accepted Kukoc, and what you have is a
Big Three that will likely be unmatched.

   When the 6-foot-11-inch Kukoc scored 14 points in the third
quarter of Game 7 of the Bulls-Pacers series, it was the equivalent
of an exhausted Jordan handing him the baton in a relay race,
giving him a leg all his own.

   ``Toni has a saying that `when I score, I make one person happy
but when I pass, I make two people happy,''' Krause said. ``I keep
wanting him to shoot and make me happy.''

   The problem here has been that contentment for Kukoc has been
getting through a night not having Jackson or Jordan scream at him
for every misstep. Kukoc is no Doberman defender, but he is an
extraordinarily gifted offensive player for his size, and the
intramural hazing was certainly too loud and lasted too long for
the Krause connection to have not been a factor.

   By Tuesday, Kukoc was saying: ``I've come to realize that
whenever somebody says wait for the game to come to you, it's not
true. I don't think it's going to come to you if you don't go and
get the game.''

   And Pippen had noticed that Kukoc was as bewildering to the Jazz
offensively as Pippen was defensively. ``We feel like, in this
series especially, they don't have an answer for Toni because he
can not only create offense but he can break this team down and
give opportunities to other guys,'' he said.

   Of course, had the Bulls lost Game 4, those bags would have
reappeared and the marriage would have taken a turn for the worse.
They didn't. Chicago's hope continues. &QL;
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 By HARVET ARATON    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   CHICAGO _ It was a good thing that the Chicago Bulls had another
game to win Wednesday night against the Utah Jazz. One more day off
to reflect on the wonderfulness of a 42-point massacre, and they
might have staged a team love-in, or arranged a roast for Jerry
Krause.

   Four games into this sixth NBA finals, the mirror suddenly
presents the prettiest face the Bulls have seen in months. Now
leading the Jazz by three games to one after Wednesday night's
86-82 victory at the United Center, the Bulls have to wonder where
those bags under their eyes have gone. Feeling sprightly again,
potent, there was talk of tolerance, of mutual respect, of renewed
marital vows.

   Michael Jordan has proclaimed the Bulls' swagger to be back.
Phil Jackson understands Dennis Rodman's pain, and was rewarderd
with crucial free throws by Rodman at the game's end Wednesday
night. Scottie Pippen has discussed a scenario under which he might
stay.

   And they all are paying homage to Toni Kukoc, who has long been
the embodiment of their collective resentment for Krause, the
general manager who only wanted them to reach down and give him an
occasional high-five.

   The stout former baseball scout sprinted after Kukoc all over
Europe while he had a triple-title team back home, paid him more
than either Jordan and Pippen was making and spent the next five
years pulling darts out of his behind.

   When it came to Kukoc, Zen Coach Jackson communed more like
Drill Sergeant Knight, yanking this sensitive but talented Croatian
in and out for having the audacity to not be in the defensive
league of Jordan and Pippen, who are merely two of the best in the
history of the game.

   All of a sudden, after replacing Rodman as a starter with Kukoc
for the Indiana series and sticking with him in the finals, here
was Jackson calling Krause's guy the ``X factor'' on a team as
popular as ``The X-Files.''

   Added Jackson, ``If he plays well, we're going to win the
championship.''

   Figurative high-five, Krause.

   Could this be the signaling of an inevitable thaw in which all
of the Bulls' powers-that-be sit cross-legged in a circle by a
post-season campfire and join hands to sing ``We Are the
Champions?'' This is just a guess, but since Jordan himself insists
he has no idea where this is going, mine has to be as good as his.
And it is that the recent emergence of Kukoc is Chicago's hope for
another Bulls run next season. He is the olive branch to Krause
that could allow everyone to save face and continue to coexist.

   Management's argument for cutting Pippen loose and giving Jordan
no reason to return has been its reluctance to commit long-term
megamillions to a player who will be 33 by the start of the next
season. But Pippen has continued to flourish, his long-striding,
roaming defense a weapon that in Game 3 enfeebled the best-executed
offense in the National Basketball Association. Jordan, at 35, gets
tired when physically pressed at both ends for 40 minutes, but he
is still the game's best player. Mix in a more confident,
consistent and completely accepted Kukoc, and what you have is a
Big Three that will likely be unmatched.

   When the 6-foot-11-inch Kukoc scored 14 points in the third
quarter of Game 7 of the Bulls-Pacers series, it was the equivalent
of an exhausted Jordan handing him the baton in a relay race,
giving him a leg all his own.

   ``Toni has a saying that `when I score, I make one person happy
but when I pass, I make two people happy,''' Krause said. ``I keep
wanting him to shoot and make me happy.''

   The problem here has been that contentment for Kukoc has been
getting through a night not having Jackson or Jordan scream at him
for every misstep. Kukoc is no Doberman defender, but he is an
extraordinarily gifted offensive player for his size, and the
intramural hazing was certainly too loud and lasted too long for
the Krause connection to have not been a factor.

   By Tuesday, Kukoc was saying: ``I've come to realize that
whenever somebody says wait for the game to come to you, it's not
true. I don't think it's going to come to you if you don't go and
get the game.''

   And Pippen had noticed that Kukoc was as bewildering to the Jazz
offensively as Pippen was defensively. ``We feel like, in this
series especially, they don't have an answer for Toni because he
can not only create offense but he can break this team down and
give opportunities to other guys,'' he said.

   Of course, had the Bulls lost Game 4, those bags would have
reappeared and the marriage would have taken a turn for the worse.
They didn't. Chicago's hope continues. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0004 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:28 ',
			header: '
A4138 &Cx1f; ttx-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BBA-RANGERS-SALE-TEX     06-11 0626
',
			slug: ' BC-BBA-RANGERS-SALE-TEX ',
			headline: '
IT'S OFFICIAL AND UNANIMOUS: HICKS OWNS RANGERS
',
			trailer: '
   SEATTLE _ Baseball welcomed Tom Hicks with open arms last night,
unanimously approving him as the owner of the Rangers in a vote
taken by Major League Baseball owners at their quarterly meetings.

   Hicks, who also owns the Dallas Stars, will officially take
control of the Rangers on Tuesday when final documents are signed
on the $250 million sale of the ballclub, the lease on The Ballpark
in Arlington and 270 acres of property.

   ``I knew it was going to go well,'' Hicks said. ``I'm pleased it
was unanimous. It makes me feel good about joining the other owners
in this business venture. You still have to pinch yourself when
you're getting ready to own such an American institution like a
baseball team.''

   He is buying the club from the partnership, originally headed by
Texas Gov. George W. Bush and Edward ``Rusty'' Rose, which bought
the club in 1989 for $86 million. Tom Schieffer, who replaced Bush
as managing general partner in 1994, will remain with the club as
president. Bush, who has not been involved with the club since
becoming governor, is expected to receive about $10 million from
the sale.

   ``The Rangers are getting a wonderful, quality person in Tom
Hicks,'' interim commissioner Bud Selig said. ``We checked Tom
Hicks out, and the process went smoothly because he is a quality
individual. The franchise is in great hands.''

   The vote was scheduled for today, but the owners cut short their
meetings because of a relatively light agenda. Hicks, who had been
scheduled to arrive in Seattle today, was in New York last night
for a speaking engagement and was unavailable to `comment.

   There was no opposition expressed to Hicks. Baseball's ownership
committee, which investigated Hicks and the details of the
transaction, gave him a unanimous recommendation.

   ``We haven't found anything negative that would suggest anything
except that he will be a fine addition to baseball,'' said Atlanta
Braves chairman Bill Bartholomay, chairman of the ownership
committee. ``He's done extremely well in everything he's done. I've
gotten to know him personally and I've developed a high regard for
him. I'm sorry they didn't win the Stanley Cup, but they got pretty
close.''

   The purchase price is the second-highest in baseball, behind the
$311 million Rupert Murdoch paid for the Los Angeles Dodgers from
Peter O'Malley in May.

   Hicks takes over a team that is in first place in the American
League West and has a payroll of about $55 million, in the top
seven in baseball.

   Schieffer said that he doesn't expect a dramatic increase in the
payroll but that Hicks ``certainly gives us the resources to add
players in the future if we need it. We have a good record of doing
that already and hopefully we'll continue to be able to do that.
We've been competitive and I don't see how this will do anything
but help us.''

   Rose closed out 10 years as a major-league owner by giving an
emotional farewell speech to fellow owners yesterday. Rose didn't
talk to the news media, but Schieffer said, ``Rusty said he was
very touched by his experience in baseball and found it very
enjoyable. From my standpoint it was a bittersweet moment because
it was such a pleasure to be around George and Rusty. I'm very
thankful for all the things they allowed me to do.''

   Said Selig: ``I really enjoyed the ownership of the Texas club,
George Bush, Rusty Rose and Tom. When you think back to when they
bought that franchise and what it was like then and what it is
today, with that new ballclub, it's really remarkable. I'm going to
miss them a lot.''
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
 
By T.R. SULLIVAN 
c.1998 Fort Worth Star-Telegram 

',
			paragraphs: '
   SEATTLE _ Baseball welcomed Tom Hicks with open arms last night,
unanimously approving him as the owner of the Rangers in a vote
taken by Major League Baseball owners at their quarterly meetings.

   Hicks, who also owns the Dallas Stars, will officially take
control of the Rangers on Tuesday when final documents are signed
on the $250 million sale of the ballclub, the lease on The Ballpark
in Arlington and 270 acres of property.

   ``I knew it was going to go well,'' Hicks said. ``I'm pleased it
was unanimous. It makes me feel good about joining the other owners
in this business venture. You still have to pinch yourself when
you're getting ready to own such an American institution like a
baseball team.''

   He is buying the club from the partnership, originally headed by
Texas Gov. George W. Bush and Edward ``Rusty'' Rose, which bought
the club in 1989 for $86 million. Tom Schieffer, who replaced Bush
as managing general partner in 1994, will remain with the club as
president. Bush, who has not been involved with the club since
becoming governor, is expected to receive about $10 million from
the sale.

   ``The Rangers are getting a wonderful, quality person in Tom
Hicks,'' interim commissioner Bud Selig said. ``We checked Tom
Hicks out, and the process went smoothly because he is a quality
individual. The franchise is in great hands.''

   The vote was scheduled for today, but the owners cut short their
meetings because of a relatively light agenda. Hicks, who had been
scheduled to arrive in Seattle today, was in New York last night
for a speaking engagement and was unavailable to `comment.

   There was no opposition expressed to Hicks. Baseball's ownership
committee, which investigated Hicks and the details of the
transaction, gave him a unanimous recommendation.

   ``We haven't found anything negative that would suggest anything
except that he will be a fine addition to baseball,'' said Atlanta
Braves chairman Bill Bartholomay, chairman of the ownership
committee. ``He's done extremely well in everything he's done. I've
gotten to know him personally and I've developed a high regard for
him. I'm sorry they didn't win the Stanley Cup, but they got pretty
close.''

   The purchase price is the second-highest in baseball, behind the
$311 million Rupert Murdoch paid for the Los Angeles Dodgers from
Peter O'Malley in May.

   Hicks takes over a team that is in first place in the American
League West and has a payroll of about $55 million, in the top
seven in baseball.

   Schieffer said that he doesn't expect a dramatic increase in the
payroll but that Hicks ``certainly gives us the resources to add
players in the future if we need it. We have a good record of doing
that already and hopefully we'll continue to be able to do that.
We've been competitive and I don't see how this will do anything
but help us.''

   Rose closed out 10 years as a major-league owner by giving an
emotional farewell speech to fellow owners yesterday. Rose didn't
talk to the news media, but Schieffer said, ``Rusty said he was
very touched by his experience in baseball and found it very
enjoyable. From my standpoint it was a bittersweet moment because
it was such a pleasure to be around George and Rusty. I'm very
thankful for all the things they allowed me to do.''

   Said Selig: ``I really enjoyed the ownership of the Texas club,
George Bush, Rusty Rose and Tom. When you think back to when they
bought that franchise and what it was like then and what it is
today, with that new ballclub, it's really remarkable. I'm going to
miss them a lot.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0005 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:36 ',
			header: '
A4142 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GEN-NORTHRIDGE-LADN     06-11 1548
',
			slug: ' BC-GEN-NORTHRIDGE-LADN ',
			headline: '
CAL STATE NORTHRIDGE BACK FROM BRINK
',
			trailer: '
   NORTHRIDGE _ Months before Cal State Northridge sliced its men's
sports program, athletic director Paul Bubb met Andy Geiger, his
counterpart at Ohio State.

   Bubb, in his second year at the head of CSUN athletics, felt
low. Northridge administrators were beginning to consider the worst
_ cutting some teams to solve budget and gender-equity problems.
Bubb wanted to know, what did Geiger think?

   There is nothing worse than dropping a sport, Geiger told Bubb.
Do whatever it takes to prevent that from happening.

   It was an easy comment for Geiger. Although he had to make that
decision years earlier at another school, his Ohio State program is
self-sufficient with 34 sports and a $38 million budget.
Northridge, on the other hand, has stretched a $6.2 million budget
_ funded mostly by the state, school and students _ over 20 sports.

   Last spring, $800,000 in the red and far from achieving
gender-equity in participation numbers and funding, Bubb had to
steel himself for the worst. He consulted a group of faculty,
staff, students and community members. Eventually, university
president Blenda Wilson and student affairs vice president Ronald
Kopita said they saw no alternative but to eliminate four sports.

   Small miracles

   Things seem much brighter today than they did a year ago, June
11, 1997. With Wilson out of town on business and virtually
unreachable, Bubb and Kopita announced Northridge had axed
baseball, men's volleyball, men's soccer and men's swimming. For
good.

   Almost in the same breath, they voiced stronger-than-ever
support of the football and men's basketball teams _ marquee sports
of the Big Sky Conference, which Northridge joined in 1996.

   ``At the time of the decision, we thought that was going to be
it,'' Kopita said. ``The money wasn't there and there was no
assumption that something magical would happen to allow those
sports back.''

   In the ensuing months, small miracles kept the teams alive long
enough to force another major administrative decision.

   By late December, debate and discussion spearheaded by weekly
task-force forums that gave those interested the opportunity to
speak publicly for the first time, the receipt of unexpected cash,
and a one-time, bailout grant from the state spurred Wilson to
announce Northridge is and will be committed to a broad-based
athletics program.

   All 20 sports, she said, will compete for at least another
season.

   Still, she fell short of promising history would not repeat
itself.

   ``I'm not going to say never this or always that. I'm not
clairvoyant,'' Wilson said. ``But the commitment of the university
is genuine. If we have the resources, we will continue to support a
broad-based program.''

   Wilson has not yet pledged the resources of the university to
retaining every sport forever, or into the next century. In fact,
many are continuing to operate on a shoestring, and some faculty
members suggest the school is thinking of Division I-AA football
national championships and NCAA basketball tournament appearances
at the expense of 18 other sports when it should be targeting
``affordable excellence'' for the entire program.

   But it's a start, and the future seems brighter than it was when
a grim-faced Bubb made that announcement.

   ``(Wilson) has backed us tremendously since the cuts and we did
some solid recruiting this year because of that,'' men's volleyball
coach Jeff Campbell said. ``We're a little bit more secure now than
we would've been (if the sports weren't dropped). Our financial
backing is better because of the outcry and we got people in the
community rallying behind Northridge athletics.

   ``I think we're better off now than we were before the cuts.''

   Coffers richer

   California's $4.2 billion economic boom helps that commitment.
The governor has proposed an extra $293.2 million for the CSU
system, and Northridge's state-allocated general fund is expected
to be $3.8 million richer.

   Now, the idea of doubling the general-fund contribution to
athletics _ from $1.5 to $3.1 million, Bubb's request for 1998-99 _
is possible. Bubb also has asked for more money from the
instructional-related activities fund. Bubb received $480,000 for
1997-98; recently he requested $600,000. The University
Corporation, the school's fund-raising wing, pledged $600,000 to
athletics for the coming year _ $100,000 more than its usual gift.

   So is the problem solved? Not for the long term. But this year's
extra money enables 20 sports to stay afloat.

   By 1999, Northridge is adding women's water polo to increase
female participation. To abide by Big Sky rules, it also must add
men's tennis the same year. Bubb's five-year plan includes the
addition of women's lacrosse by the 2000-01 school year.

   Then there is the matter of facilities. Northridge, the only Big
Sky school with a football stadium that holds less than 10,000,
must find another place to play to conform with conference
regulations. A recently approved biotech project will take over the
North Campus in less than two years, where the football stadium is
located. A football stadium must be built or an existing facility
leased.

   The Big Sky also has requested improvements in the Northridge
Gym. Coaches and athletes have long been asking for a better
baseball stadium. To address these concerns, Wilson is organizing a
committee that will work through the summer to determine the best
sites and plans for future stadiums. When recommendations will be
accepted and how they will be implemented has yet to be determined.

   Even the softball team's ``Field of Dreams'' _ funded by
sponsorships _ is behind schedule. Groundbreaking was set for June
but plans must be approved and design problems remain to be solved.

   ``We've had tremendous teams, and people know a lot about them,
but we do not have a tremendous fan following,'' Bubb said. ``Part
of that is due to facilities. They're proud, but do they want to
come out with the dilapidated facilities we have now? Seeing your
team win is nice, but do you want to if you walk away with
splinters?''

   Gender-equity factor

   Another problem is Northridge's failure to meet the strict
gender-equity guidelines instituted by a 1993 consent-decree the
CSU system signed with California's branch of the National
Organization for Women. All Cal State campuses must have athletic
participation rates and funding for women's sports mirror within 5
percent their school's female population. Compliance must be by
fall 1998.

   That means that by September, 52 percent of Northridge's
athletes must be women, 52 percent of scholarships must be awarded
to women, and 42 percent of the operations budget must be set aside
for women's teams. Northridge should achieve the last two but is an
estimated 3 percentage points shy of meeting the first mandate.

   Come fall, 19 Cal State campuses will send the Cal-NOW attorney
a report explaining what the school has done to reach compliance,
or how the school tried. Northridge is focusing on the second
option.

   The latest figures, from 1997, show Humboldt and Pomona have
complied while six others have met the terms regarding
expenditures. Fresno State president John Welty, chair of the
consent-decree monitoring committee, has determined that most
campuses will make the fall deadline.

   Of those expected to comply, five are football-playing schools,
including Fresno, San Diego, San Jose, Cal Poly San Luis Obispo and
Sacramento. There was some speculation that Cal-NOW members would
make easier the terms of the consent-decree, the result of an
out-of-court settlement between Cal-NOW and CSU. State Sen. Cathie
Wright, R-Simi Valley, who engineered last year's $586,000 bailout,
has suggested as much.

   But Linda Joplin, the group's athletic equity chair, said no
changes will take place. ``What do they want? Another 10, 15 years
to do what they should've done 20 years ago (when Title IX was
implemented)?'' she said.

   Joplin said she expects to review all CSU reports by early next
year. If the organization feels that a school did not reach
compliance, and did not try hard enough, Cal-NOW likely will take
the university to court. Wilson said she is optimistic Northridge
will pass the ``good-faith effort'' test.

   People power

   CSUN faces many other obstacles, too. The school's spring
athletics fund-raising drive raised at least $75,000 overall.
Football got $15,000 _ of which $50 came from boosters' efforts.

   What happened a year ago _ and its public pain _ apparently
forced all to face the issue head-on.

   It wasn't until students, faculty, alumni, people who lived in
the Valley, those who felt the pain of the affected athletes and
coaches, and others who simply believed a university like
Northridge must offer a complete athletics program demanded the
sports be brought back that CSUN acted.

   ``In the long run,'' swimming coach Barry Schreifels said,
``we've found a new level of stability, and we're building from
that. There's no wondering. Nobody wonders anymore, and that's the
greatest thing.'' &QL;
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By RIZZA YAP  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   NORTHRIDGE _ Months before Cal State Northridge sliced its men's
sports program, athletic director Paul Bubb met Andy Geiger, his
counterpart at Ohio State.

   Bubb, in his second year at the head of CSUN athletics, felt
low. Northridge administrators were beginning to consider the worst
_ cutting some teams to solve budget and gender-equity problems.
Bubb wanted to know, what did Geiger think?

   There is nothing worse than dropping a sport, Geiger told Bubb.
Do whatever it takes to prevent that from happening.

   It was an easy comment for Geiger. Although he had to make that
decision years earlier at another school, his Ohio State program is
self-sufficient with 34 sports and a $38 million budget.
Northridge, on the other hand, has stretched a $6.2 million budget
_ funded mostly by the state, school and students _ over 20 sports.

   Last spring, $800,000 in the red and far from achieving
gender-equity in participation numbers and funding, Bubb had to
steel himself for the worst. He consulted a group of faculty,
staff, students and community members. Eventually, university
president Blenda Wilson and student affairs vice president Ronald
Kopita said they saw no alternative but to eliminate four sports.

   Small miracles

   Things seem much brighter today than they did a year ago, June
11, 1997. With Wilson out of town on business and virtually
unreachable, Bubb and Kopita announced Northridge had axed
baseball, men's volleyball, men's soccer and men's swimming. For
good.

   Almost in the same breath, they voiced stronger-than-ever
support of the football and men's basketball teams _ marquee sports
of the Big Sky Conference, which Northridge joined in 1996.

   ``At the time of the decision, we thought that was going to be
it,'' Kopita said. ``The money wasn't there and there was no
assumption that something magical would happen to allow those
sports back.''

   In the ensuing months, small miracles kept the teams alive long
enough to force another major administrative decision.

   By late December, debate and discussion spearheaded by weekly
task-force forums that gave those interested the opportunity to
speak publicly for the first time, the receipt of unexpected cash,
and a one-time, bailout grant from the state spurred Wilson to
announce Northridge is and will be committed to a broad-based
athletics program.

   All 20 sports, she said, will compete for at least another
season.

   Still, she fell short of promising history would not repeat
itself.

   ``I'm not going to say never this or always that. I'm not
clairvoyant,'' Wilson said. ``But the commitment of the university
is genuine. If we have the resources, we will continue to support a
broad-based program.''

   Wilson has not yet pledged the resources of the university to
retaining every sport forever, or into the next century. In fact,
many are continuing to operate on a shoestring, and some faculty
members suggest the school is thinking of Division I-AA football
national championships and NCAA basketball tournament appearances
at the expense of 18 other sports when it should be targeting
``affordable excellence'' for the entire program.

   But it's a start, and the future seems brighter than it was when
a grim-faced Bubb made that announcement.

   ``(Wilson) has backed us tremendously since the cuts and we did
some solid recruiting this year because of that,'' men's volleyball
coach Jeff Campbell said. ``We're a little bit more secure now than
we would've been (if the sports weren't dropped). Our financial
backing is better because of the outcry and we got people in the
community rallying behind Northridge athletics.

   ``I think we're better off now than we were before the cuts.''

   Coffers richer

   California's $4.2 billion economic boom helps that commitment.
The governor has proposed an extra $293.2 million for the CSU
system, and Northridge's state-allocated general fund is expected
to be $3.8 million richer.

   Now, the idea of doubling the general-fund contribution to
athletics _ from $1.5 to $3.1 million, Bubb's request for 1998-99 _
is possible. Bubb also has asked for more money from the
instructional-related activities fund. Bubb received $480,000 for
1997-98; recently he requested $600,000. The University
Corporation, the school's fund-raising wing, pledged $600,000 to
athletics for the coming year _ $100,000 more than its usual gift.

   So is the problem solved? Not for the long term. But this year's
extra money enables 20 sports to stay afloat.

   By 1999, Northridge is adding women's water polo to increase
female participation. To abide by Big Sky rules, it also must add
men's tennis the same year. Bubb's five-year plan includes the
addition of women's lacrosse by the 2000-01 school year.

   Then there is the matter of facilities. Northridge, the only Big
Sky school with a football stadium that holds less than 10,000,
must find another place to play to conform with conference
regulations. A recently approved biotech project will take over the
North Campus in less than two years, where the football stadium is
located. A football stadium must be built or an existing facility
leased.

   The Big Sky also has requested improvements in the Northridge
Gym. Coaches and athletes have long been asking for a better
baseball stadium. To address these concerns, Wilson is organizing a
committee that will work through the summer to determine the best
sites and plans for future stadiums. When recommendations will be
accepted and how they will be implemented has yet to be determined.

   Even the softball team's ``Field of Dreams'' _ funded by
sponsorships _ is behind schedule. Groundbreaking was set for June
but plans must be approved and design problems remain to be solved.

   ``We've had tremendous teams, and people know a lot about them,
but we do not have a tremendous fan following,'' Bubb said. ``Part
of that is due to facilities. They're proud, but do they want to
come out with the dilapidated facilities we have now? Seeing your
team win is nice, but do you want to if you walk away with
splinters?''

   Gender-equity factor

   Another problem is Northridge's failure to meet the strict
gender-equity guidelines instituted by a 1993 consent-decree the
CSU system signed with California's branch of the National
Organization for Women. All Cal State campuses must have athletic
participation rates and funding for women's sports mirror within 5
percent their school's female population. Compliance must be by
fall 1998.

   That means that by September, 52 percent of Northridge's
athletes must be women, 52 percent of scholarships must be awarded
to women, and 42 percent of the operations budget must be set aside
for women's teams. Northridge should achieve the last two but is an
estimated 3 percentage points shy of meeting the first mandate.

   Come fall, 19 Cal State campuses will send the Cal-NOW attorney
a report explaining what the school has done to reach compliance,
or how the school tried. Northridge is focusing on the second
option.

   The latest figures, from 1997, show Humboldt and Pomona have
complied while six others have met the terms regarding
expenditures. Fresno State president John Welty, chair of the
consent-decree monitoring committee, has determined that most
campuses will make the fall deadline.

   Of those expected to comply, five are football-playing schools,
including Fresno, San Diego, San Jose, Cal Poly San Luis Obispo and
Sacramento. There was some speculation that Cal-NOW members would
make easier the terms of the consent-decree, the result of an
out-of-court settlement between Cal-NOW and CSU. State Sen. Cathie
Wright, R-Simi Valley, who engineered last year's $586,000 bailout,
has suggested as much.

   But Linda Joplin, the group's athletic equity chair, said no
changes will take place. ``What do they want? Another 10, 15 years
to do what they should've done 20 years ago (when Title IX was
implemented)?'' she said.

   Joplin said she expects to review all CSU reports by early next
year. If the organization feels that a school did not reach
compliance, and did not try hard enough, Cal-NOW likely will take
the university to court. Wilson said she is optimistic Northridge
will pass the ``good-faith effort'' test.

   People power

   CSUN faces many other obstacles, too. The school's spring
athletics fund-raising drive raised at least $75,000 overall.
Football got $15,000 _ of which $50 came from boosters' efforts.

   What happened a year ago _ and its public pain _ apparently
forced all to face the issue head-on.

   It wasn't until students, faculty, alumni, people who lived in
the Valley, those who felt the pain of the affected athletes and
coaches, and others who simply believed a university like
Northridge must offer a complete athletics program demanded the
sports be brought back that CSUN acted.

   ``In the long run,'' swimming coach Barry Schreifels said,
``we've found a new level of stability, and we're building from
that. There's no wondering. Nobody wonders anymore, and that's the
greatest thing.'' &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0006 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:37 ',
			header: '
A4143 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BBN-DODGERS-NOTES-LAD     06-11 0716
',
			slug: ' BC-BBN-DODGERS-NOTES-LADN ',
			headline: '
HOLLANDSWORTH SURGERY TODAY
',
			trailer: '
   Left fielder Todd Hollandsworth will undergo surgery today to
repair torn cartilage in his left shoulder, but Dodgers executive
vice president Fred Claire said he is hopeful Hollandsworth can
return before the end of the season.

   ``We put him on the 60-day disabled list and I hope he proves me
wrong after four or five weeks,'' Claire said. ``But that is the
recovery time we expect and there also will be a rehabilitation
assignment.''

   The surgery will be performed this morning by team orthopedist
Frank Jobe at Centinela Hospital Medical Center in Inglewood.
Tuesday, Hollandsworth had a second MRI, which confirmed a tear on
the top of the shoulder.

   The injury is similar to the cartilage damage suffered last
month by Triple-A infielder Adam Riggs, who batted .476 (10 for 21)
for the Dodgers during spring training. Riggs will miss the rest of
the season.

   Hollandsworth, who injured his shoulder May 19 in Chicago diving
back to first base, pinch ran during last weekend's
Dodgers-Mariners series in Seattle, his hometown. Manager Bill
Russell said there was little chance Hollandsworth could further
injure the shoulder.

   No Larkin: Barry Larkin has asked the Cincinnati Reds to trade
him, but the veteran shortstop isn't coming to the Dodgers, one of
four teams he said he would consider.

   ``They haven't called and there is nothing to that,'' Claire
said.

   Larkin, through his agent Eric Goldschmidt, listed the Dodgers,
San Diego, San Francisco and St. Louis as possible teams. Larkin,
the 1995 NL MVP, was sidelined earlier this season with leg
injuries. He is batting .270 with 27 RBI.

   San Diego, which is hosting Cincinnati, could be the favorite
because shortstops Chris Gomez and Andy Sheets are struggling
offensively. Reds general manager Jim Bowden said he has played
phone tag with Padres GM Kevin Towers the past few days but didn't
expect a deal to be made.

   ``For the past 10 days we have explored several trade
opportunities for Barry Larkin,'' Bowden said. ``At this time there
has not been an acceptable trade proposal for us to even consider.
It is a dead issue.''

   Larkin is earning $5.3 million this year.

   Back in the game: A's manager Art Howe is in his third year with
the club. He also managed five seasons with Houston. But after he
was fired by the Astros in 1993, Howe was hired by the Dodgers as a
special-assignment scout.

   For one season, Howe worked for Claire scouting future Dodgers
opponents and evaluating minor-league talent. But Howe says it was
his one winter managing for the Dodgers in the Dominican Republic
that helped him get the A's job two years later. Among the future
Dodgers he managed were Hollandsworth and reliever Jim Bruske.

   ``It put me in a spot where I was back on the field and I think
that was critical to coming here,'' said Howe, who joined the A's
in 1996 after a year as Colorado's hitting instructor. ``But I
loved the scouting and learned a lot from the scouts. A player who
has tools but no makeup is not going to make it. A player with
makeup and no tools is not going to make it. This is job of
constant evaluation, and that experience helped.''

   C.V. honored: Before the game, the Dodgers saluted the Crescenta
Valley High baseball team for winning the Southern Section Division
I championship. The Falcons defeated Esperanza 7-1 on Saturday to
win its first title. C.V. is coached by former Dodgers minor-league
right-hander Phil Torres, who reached Triple-A in the late 1980s.

   Also: Reliever Darren Hall, sidelined since the first weekend of
the season, threw a one-inning simulated game for the second
consecutive game and is close to starting a 20-day rehabilitation
assignment at Single-A San Bernardino. Hall, described by pitching
coach Goose Gregson as a ``one-inning pitcher,'' threw 15 pitches
in each game to give him feel of a regular workday.... Tripp
Cromer, a valuable Dodger off the bench last season, also is
getting close to a rehab assignment after spending the past six
months recovering from reconstructive surgery on his right elbow.
He will play at Triple-A Albuquerque.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By MATT McHALE  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Left fielder Todd Hollandsworth will undergo surgery today to
repair torn cartilage in his left shoulder, but Dodgers executive
vice president Fred Claire said he is hopeful Hollandsworth can
return before the end of the season.

   ``We put him on the 60-day disabled list and I hope he proves me
wrong after four or five weeks,'' Claire said. ``But that is the
recovery time we expect and there also will be a rehabilitation
assignment.''

   The surgery will be performed this morning by team orthopedist
Frank Jobe at Centinela Hospital Medical Center in Inglewood.
Tuesday, Hollandsworth had a second MRI, which confirmed a tear on
the top of the shoulder.

   The injury is similar to the cartilage damage suffered last
month by Triple-A infielder Adam Riggs, who batted .476 (10 for 21)
for the Dodgers during spring training. Riggs will miss the rest of
the season.

   Hollandsworth, who injured his shoulder May 19 in Chicago diving
back to first base, pinch ran during last weekend's
Dodgers-Mariners series in Seattle, his hometown. Manager Bill
Russell said there was little chance Hollandsworth could further
injure the shoulder.

   No Larkin: Barry Larkin has asked the Cincinnati Reds to trade
him, but the veteran shortstop isn't coming to the Dodgers, one of
four teams he said he would consider.

   ``They haven't called and there is nothing to that,'' Claire
said.

   Larkin, through his agent Eric Goldschmidt, listed the Dodgers,
San Diego, San Francisco and St. Louis as possible teams. Larkin,
the 1995 NL MVP, was sidelined earlier this season with leg
injuries. He is batting .270 with 27 RBI.

   San Diego, which is hosting Cincinnati, could be the favorite
because shortstops Chris Gomez and Andy Sheets are struggling
offensively. Reds general manager Jim Bowden said he has played
phone tag with Padres GM Kevin Towers the past few days but didn't
expect a deal to be made.

   ``For the past 10 days we have explored several trade
opportunities for Barry Larkin,'' Bowden said. ``At this time there
has not been an acceptable trade proposal for us to even consider.
It is a dead issue.''

   Larkin is earning $5.3 million this year.

   Back in the game: A's manager Art Howe is in his third year with
the club. He also managed five seasons with Houston. But after he
was fired by the Astros in 1993, Howe was hired by the Dodgers as a
special-assignment scout.

   For one season, Howe worked for Claire scouting future Dodgers
opponents and evaluating minor-league talent. But Howe says it was
his one winter managing for the Dodgers in the Dominican Republic
that helped him get the A's job two years later. Among the future
Dodgers he managed were Hollandsworth and reliever Jim Bruske.

   ``It put me in a spot where I was back on the field and I think
that was critical to coming here,'' said Howe, who joined the A's
in 1996 after a year as Colorado's hitting instructor. ``But I
loved the scouting and learned a lot from the scouts. A player who
has tools but no makeup is not going to make it. A player with
makeup and no tools is not going to make it. This is job of
constant evaluation, and that experience helped.''

   C.V. honored: Before the game, the Dodgers saluted the Crescenta
Valley High baseball team for winning the Southern Section Division
I championship. The Falcons defeated Esperanza 7-1 on Saturday to
win its first title. C.V. is coached by former Dodgers minor-league
right-hander Phil Torres, who reached Triple-A in the late 1980s.

   Also: Reliever Darren Hall, sidelined since the first weekend of
the season, threw a one-inning simulated game for the second
consecutive game and is close to starting a 20-day rehabilitation
assignment at Single-A San Bernardino. Hall, described by pitching
coach Goose Gregson as a ``one-inning pitcher,'' threw 15 pitches
in each game to give him feel of a regular workday.... Tripp
Cromer, a valuable Dodger off the bench last season, also is
getting close to a rehab assignment after spending the past six
months recovering from reconstructive surgery on his right elbow.
He will play at Triple-A Albuquerque.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0007 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:38 ',
			header: '
A4145 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GALLERIA-MAKEOVER-LAD     06-11 0908
',
			slug: ' BC-GALLERIA-MAKEOVER-LADN ',
			headline: '
BIG CHANGES IN STORE FOR GALLERIA, EPICENTER OF `VALLEY GIRL' FAME
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES -- The shopping mall that made the suburban San
Fernando Valley famous throughout the land for enticing ``Valley
girls'' to shop till they dropped may soon lose its biggest stores.

   In yet another sign of changing times, the owners of the Sherman
Oaks Galleria, which already has lost many of its smaller stores,
want to evict two Robinsons-May department stores so they can use
the space for offices, movie theaters and restaurants.

   They seek a zoning change from the city of Los Angeles to
drastically reduce retail space, trim the mall's overall size by
118,500 square feet and make it more accessible to pedestrians from
nearby Ventura and Sepulveda boulevards via an open-air plaza.

   The Robinsons-May at the mall's south end would become high-tech
offices, while the other would combine theaters, restaurants and
shops, said Dan Emmett, president of Douglas, Emmett and Co.,
managing partner of Galleria Park Partners LLC and the mall's
co-owner.

   The plans are predicated on Robinsons-May pulling out of the
landmark mall, which sits next to the intersection of the San Diego
and Ventura freeways. ``This is a plan that assumes they would be
going rather than staying,'' Emmett said.

   To that end, Emmett's company has sued May Department Stores,
the retailer's St. Louis-based parent company, claiming it breached
its lease by not maintaining the Galleria's stores in the same
manner as others in the chain. Galleria Park Partners also is
trying to settle the matter through negotiations.

   Robinsons-May spokesman Jim Waterson said the company would not
comment because of the lawsuit.

   In the early 1980s, fueled by appearances in the movies ``Fast
Times at Ridgemont High'' and ``Valley Girl,'' the site was
considered one of Southern California's coolest places for shopping
and socializing. At that time, the mall included Robinsons and May
Co. department stores. The chains later merged.

   But in the '90s, shoppers flocked to other malls, and today few
stores remain open. Still, some shoppers on Wednesday expressed
dismay at the plans.

   ``I think it stinks,'' said Michele Spatz of Encino. ``This has
been our backyard shopping mall for a long time. I'd be extra
disgusted. There's already too much office space.''

   But Patty Matesk, a lifelong Sherman Oaks resident, said the
Galleria is as good as gone. ``It's creepy,'' she said of the
mall's lack of shoppers and stores, while browsing for a wedding
gift at Robinsons-May.

   Cindy Britton, who has managed Jewelrymania in the mall for 11
years, knows the feeling. Jewelrymania once had at least 100
serious shoppers per day. Now she might see 20, she said.

   Most major tenants have left, including Structure, Miller's
Outpost, Casual Corner and Contempo Casuals, she said, adding,
``I've seen this mall go through a lot.''

   Emmett's company bought the Galleria in August 1997 from
Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Co. and Prudential Insurance Co. Terms were
not announced.

   Those co-owners in 1996 received City Council approval for an
expansion that included up to eight new restaurants and 13 new
theater screens. Retail space was capped at 657,450 square feet and
office space at 272,000 square feet.

   The change sought by the current owners is less specific with
regard to the number of restaurants and theaters. Retail operations
would be limited to 390,800 square feet, including 40,000 for
restaurants. The theaters still would include 4,000 seats,
documents filed with the Planning Department indicate.

   Emmett said it is too soon to say how many screens or
restaurants will be included or how much the project might cost.

   ``The main thing is it would be a smaller overall project than
we are currently entitled to and provide some flexibility between
office and retail space,'' Emmett said. ``There would be less
traffic and less density than there is currently permitted.''

   No changes are planned for the adjacent 15-story office building
that rises from Sepulveda Boulevard.

   ``We want a long-term, viable project, and we are going to
design it based on the demand'' Emmett said. ``The market for
(high-ceiling office) space is extremely strong and the high-rise
is totally leased.''

   Leaders of area homeowners groups, who opposed earlier Galleria
renovation plans, said so far they like what they see.

   Emmett has discussed his plans with both the Sherman Oaks
Homeowners Association and Homeowners of Encino.

   ``We think that it will make the Galleria much more attractive
and used by residents of the area,'' said Richard Close, president
of the Sherman Oaks group.

   Added Gerald Silver, president of Homeowners of Encino and a
vocal critic of past renovation plans: ``We feel very positive
about the north building being converted from a department store to
commercial office space . . . that (brings) good-paying jobs and
relatively minimal traffic problems.''

   Silver still is concerned about the number of theater seats
contained in the plan.

   Councilman Mike Feuer, whose district includes the Galleria,
said, ``Sherman Oaks has long awaited a renovation of this
landmark, and there seems to at least initially be broad support
for this project.''

   XXX
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By GREGORY J. WILCOX  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES -- The shopping mall that made the suburban San
Fernando Valley famous throughout the land for enticing ``Valley
girls'' to shop till they dropped may soon lose its biggest stores.

   In yet another sign of changing times, the owners of the Sherman
Oaks Galleria, which already has lost many of its smaller stores,
want to evict two Robinsons-May department stores so they can use
the space for offices, movie theaters and restaurants.

   They seek a zoning change from the city of Los Angeles to
drastically reduce retail space, trim the mall's overall size by
118,500 square feet and make it more accessible to pedestrians from
nearby Ventura and Sepulveda boulevards via an open-air plaza.

   The Robinsons-May at the mall's south end would become high-tech
offices, while the other would combine theaters, restaurants and
shops, said Dan Emmett, president of Douglas, Emmett and Co.,
managing partner of Galleria Park Partners LLC and the mall's
co-owner.

   The plans are predicated on Robinsons-May pulling out of the
landmark mall, which sits next to the intersection of the San Diego
and Ventura freeways. ``This is a plan that assumes they would be
going rather than staying,'' Emmett said.

   To that end, Emmett's company has sued May Department Stores,
the retailer's St. Louis-based parent company, claiming it breached
its lease by not maintaining the Galleria's stores in the same
manner as others in the chain. Galleria Park Partners also is
trying to settle the matter through negotiations.

   Robinsons-May spokesman Jim Waterson said the company would not
comment because of the lawsuit.

   In the early 1980s, fueled by appearances in the movies ``Fast
Times at Ridgemont High'' and ``Valley Girl,'' the site was
considered one of Southern California's coolest places for shopping
and socializing. At that time, the mall included Robinsons and May
Co. department stores. The chains later merged.

   But in the '90s, shoppers flocked to other malls, and today few
stores remain open. Still, some shoppers on Wednesday expressed
dismay at the plans.

   ``I think it stinks,'' said Michele Spatz of Encino. ``This has
been our backyard shopping mall for a long time. I'd be extra
disgusted. There's already too much office space.''

   But Patty Matesk, a lifelong Sherman Oaks resident, said the
Galleria is as good as gone. ``It's creepy,'' she said of the
mall's lack of shoppers and stores, while browsing for a wedding
gift at Robinsons-May.

   Cindy Britton, who has managed Jewelrymania in the mall for 11
years, knows the feeling. Jewelrymania once had at least 100
serious shoppers per day. Now she might see 20, she said.

   Most major tenants have left, including Structure, Miller's
Outpost, Casual Corner and Contempo Casuals, she said, adding,
``I've seen this mall go through a lot.''

   Emmett's company bought the Galleria in August 1997 from
Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Co. and Prudential Insurance Co. Terms were
not announced.

   Those co-owners in 1996 received City Council approval for an
expansion that included up to eight new restaurants and 13 new
theater screens. Retail space was capped at 657,450 square feet and
office space at 272,000 square feet.

   The change sought by the current owners is less specific with
regard to the number of restaurants and theaters. Retail operations
would be limited to 390,800 square feet, including 40,000 for
restaurants. The theaters still would include 4,000 seats,
documents filed with the Planning Department indicate.

   Emmett said it is too soon to say how many screens or
restaurants will be included or how much the project might cost.

   ``The main thing is it would be a smaller overall project than
we are currently entitled to and provide some flexibility between
office and retail space,'' Emmett said. ``There would be less
traffic and less density than there is currently permitted.''

   No changes are planned for the adjacent 15-story office building
that rises from Sepulveda Boulevard.

   ``We want a long-term, viable project, and we are going to
design it based on the demand'' Emmett said. ``The market for
(high-ceiling office) space is extremely strong and the high-rise
is totally leased.''

   Leaders of area homeowners groups, who opposed earlier Galleria
renovation plans, said so far they like what they see.

   Emmett has discussed his plans with both the Sherman Oaks
Homeowners Association and Homeowners of Encino.

   ``We think that it will make the Galleria much more attractive
and used by residents of the area,'' said Richard Close, president
of the Sherman Oaks group.

   Added Gerald Silver, president of Homeowners of Encino and a
vocal critic of past renovation plans: ``We feel very positive
about the north building being converted from a department store to
commercial office space . . . that (brings) good-paying jobs and
relatively minimal traffic problems.''

   Silver still is concerned about the number of theater seats
contained in the plan.

   Councilman Mike Feuer, whose district includes the Galleria,
said, ``Sherman Oaks has long awaited a renovation of this
landmark, and there seems to at least initially be broad support
for this project.''

   XXX
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0008 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:51 ',
			header: '
A4148 &Cx1f; tab-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 1793
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part1of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; FICTION &AMP; POETRY &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ALIENS OF AFFECTION. By Padgett Powell. (Holt, $22.50.) A
collection of stories about characters who reject the bland
conformity of contemporary life. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ALL-TRUE TRAVELS AND ADVENTURES OF LIDIE NEWTON. By Jane
Smiley. (Knopf, $26.) A historical novel of both action and ideas,
whose heroine, a determined abolitionist, sets out to subvert
slavery in person before the Civil War. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ANTELOPE WIFE. By Louise Erdrich. (Harper
Flamingo/HarperCollins, $24.) Multiple intertwined narratives and
similar family relations shape this novel of bliss and bale among
American Indians on the big bleak prairie. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ARCHIVIST. By Martha Cooley. (Little, Brown, $22.95.)
Engagement with historic evil (the Holocaust) and rejection or
avoidance of the past are the poles of this absorbing first novel. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF RED: A Novel in Verse. By Anne Carson. (Knopf,
$23.) A compulsively readable hybrid work by a scholar and poet who
reimagines a lost Greek poem into a destructive love affair between
Hercules and an American boy who is also (somehow) a winged red
monster. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BAD CHEMISTRY. By Gary Krist. (Random House, $24.) Featuring a
headless body, inflammable dogs, a 14-year-old sleuthing
techno-nerd and Beatrix Potter, this first novel is as much a
meditation on the power of secrets as it is a detective story. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BARNEY POLAN'S GAME: A Novel of the 1951 College Basketball
Scandals. By Charley Rosen. (Seven Stories, $23.95.) Barney, a
sports columnist for The Brooklyn Sentinel, is an old-fashioned
guy, a would-be novelist whose misfortune is excessive proximity to
his material when the corruptions of the gray 1950's arrive. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BARNEY'S VERSION. By Mordecai Richler. (Knopf, $25.) Like much
of Richler's fiction, this novel seeks to evaluate Jewishness,
Canadianhood and the struggle for personal integrity; but this time
it's told by a hero whose memory is failing, making the moral task
all the harder. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BIRTHDAY LETTERS. By Ted Hughes. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $20.)
A collection of poems by the widower of Sylvia Plath, giving his
side of their tempestuous relationship. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BODY PARTS: Stories. By Jere Hoar. (University Press of
Mississippi, $26.) Mythologies and manners of the 20th-century
American South, by a keen and fearless observer -- brave enough to
live in Faulkner's Oxford and cheeky enough to create a new member
of the Snopes family. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BRAIN STORM. By Richard Dooling. (Random House, $25.) A tightly
packed thriller whose hero, a lawyer who justifiably hates his
loathsome client, becomes sexually involved with a reductive brain
researcher who can explain anything away. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BRINGING OUT THE DEAD. By Joe Connelly. (Knopf, $23.) A first
novel about a paramedic who is driven to despair by the devastation
he witnesses. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CAVEDWELLER. By Dorothy Allison. (Dutton, $24.95.) A
rock-and-roll singer returns home to Georgia and the children she
abandoned, in the second novel by the author of ``Bastard Out of
Carolina.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CELEBRATION. By Harry Crews. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $23.) In his
16th novel, Crews ponders the effect of a voluptuous teen-ager
named Too Much on a retirees' trailer park. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CHARMING BILLY. By Alice McDermott. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux,
$22.) A life distorted by a lie, and by the expectations of others,
is the matter of this eloquent, unsettling novel, set among
Irish-Americans in New York. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CITIES OF THE PLAIN: Volume 3, ``The Border Trilogy.'' By Cormac
McCarthy. (Knopf, $24.) The concluding volume of the current cowboy
saga by this stubborn, long-winded, fascinating writer (many of his
characters are like that too). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CLOUDSPLITTER. By Russell Banks. (Harper Flamingo/HarperCollins,
$27.50.) The narrator of Banks's novel, a son of John Brown,
renders the challenge (which he failed) of living with an insanely
correct fanatic before the Civil War. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE COAST OF GOOD INTENTIONS: Stories. By Michael Byers.
(Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, paper, $12.) Gently resigned stories,
melancholy and hopeful at once, about loss and accommodation in the
lives of very different kinds of people. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DAMASCUS GATE. By Robert Stone. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) A
pyrophoric mix of extreme religious persuasions explodes in the
face of Stone's skeptical hero in Jerusalem's Old City. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE DOWER HOUSE. By Annabel Davis-Goff. (St. Martin's, $22.95.)
Snobbery, need, coldness, inertia and purposelessness intersect in
this frankly old-fashioned novel about the Anglo-Irish aristocracy,
living on leftovers in the 20th century. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DREAMER. By Charles Johnson. (Scribner, $23.) A novel that
illuminates the life work of Martin Luther King Jr. by exploring
the soul of an ordinary man who is King's physical double. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ENDURING LOVE. By Ian McEwan. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $23.95.)
Another eerie novel by the author of ``The Cement Garden''; this
time the tour de force involves a science writer who is the victim,
or beneficiary, of a homoerotic religious obsession he has done
nothing to deserve. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE EVERLASTING STORY OF NORY. By Nicholson Baker. (Random
House, $22.) The novelist turns his magnifier on the mentation of a
9-year-old girl protagonist; the details, and the comedy they bring
forth, are sharp and clear. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FLYING LEAP: Stories. By Judy Budnitz. (Picador USA, $20.) A
first collection, by a 26-year-old cartoonist for The Village
Voice; her narratives are bold enough to posit a man in a dog suit
who is able to pass, or a high school pep squad that immolates
itself out of sheer enthusiasm. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GLORIE. By Caryn James. (Zoland, $24.) A novel, by the chief
television critic of The Times, that investigates character and the
fear of loss through its widowed septuagenarian protagonist's
struggle to avoid selling her home. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GOD IS MY BROKER: A Monk-Tycoon Reveals the 7 Laws of Spiritual
and Financial Growth. By Brother Ty with Christopher Buckley and
John Tierney. (Random House, $20.) A fictional sendup of self-help,
by two experienced senduppers. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HALF-LIFE OF HAPPINESS. By John Casey. (Knopf, $25.) This
spacious novel's hypersensitive and often uncharitable narrator
analyzes the failure of her parents' marriage as her mother falls
in love with another woman and her father grows becalmed in the
everyday. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HEALING. By Gayl Jones. (Beacon, $23.) A wry and funny novel
in which violence and paranoia are banished by a kind of faith that
is happy with illogic and depends (like analysis) on free
association toward insight. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HEMINGWAY'S CHAIR. By Michael Palin. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's,
$23.95.) Written by a former member of Monty Python's Flying
Circus, this novel tells the story of a sweet-tempered, prudish
postal worker who suddenly goes batty. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HORACE AFOOT. By Frederick Reuss. (MacMurray &AMP; Beck, $25.) The
hero of this debut novel lives as a modern-day ascetic in a town
called Oblivion and, in middle age, makes his first tentative stabs
at human connection. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HOURMASTER. By Christophe Bataille. (New Directions, $17.95.) A
French novelist's fable without a moral, in which 218 clocks drown
out the hiss of nothingness in an isolated seaside castle. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HOUSE GUN. By Nadine Gordimer. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux,
$24.) An elegantly conceived political novel of physical violence
and spiritual turmoil that assault a liberal white family in
post-apartheid South Africa. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HOUSE OF SLEEP. By Jonathan Coe. (Knopf, $24.) A witty,
intricate novel (Coe's second) whose four chief characters live in
engaging, unpredictable communion with dreams. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   IDENTITY. By Milan Kundera. (HarperCollins, $23.) The naive hero
sends anonymous love letters to his lover, setting off events that
illuminate their psychological obsessions and miscommunication. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   IN ANOTHER PLACE, NOT HERE. By Dionne Brand. (Grove, $24.) A
first novel, passionately attentive to nuance, that explores the
transit between the Caribbean and North America through a love
affair between two women. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE INLAND ICE: And Other Stories. By Eilis Ni Dhuibhne.
(Blackstaff/Dufour, paper, $16.95.) Fiction, graced with
head-versus-heart knowingness, about people on whom Ireland imposes
timid choices and straitened lives. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AN INSTANCE OF THE FINGERPOST. By Iain Pears. (Riverhead, $27.)
This intricate literary thriller, elaborately plotted and
superlatively researched, casts real Restoration figures in a
mystery about the murder of an Oxford don (and a much greater crime
to which it is adjoined). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE IRON TRACK. By Aharon Appelfeld. (Schocken, $21.) Tracing
for some 40 years the vanished outposts of Jewish life in central
Europe, Appelfeld's narrator and protagonist compresses big themes
of revenge, recovery and the weight of history into this short
Israeli novel. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (PART ONE ENDS HERE AT 1,400 WORDS; PART TWO _ MORE
FICTION/POETRY SUGGESTIONS _ RUNS 1,300 WORDS. NONFICTION LISTINGS,
AT 1,000 OR SO WORDS EACH, COMPRISE PARTS THREE THROUGH SIX. PART
SEVEN COVERS MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New York Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly-regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (To publish any, or all, of the list, it must be purchased _ the
rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; FICTION &AMP; POETRY &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ALIENS OF AFFECTION. By Padgett Powell. (Holt, $22.50.) A
collection of stories about characters who reject the bland
conformity of contemporary life. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ALL-TRUE TRAVELS AND ADVENTURES OF LIDIE NEWTON. By Jane
Smiley. (Knopf, $26.) A historical novel of both action and ideas,
whose heroine, a determined abolitionist, sets out to subvert
slavery in person before the Civil War. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ANTELOPE WIFE. By Louise Erdrich. (Harper
Flamingo/HarperCollins, $24.) Multiple intertwined narratives and
similar family relations shape this novel of bliss and bale among
American Indians on the big bleak prairie. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ARCHIVIST. By Martha Cooley. (Little, Brown, $22.95.)
Engagement with historic evil (the Holocaust) and rejection or
avoidance of the past are the poles of this absorbing first novel. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF RED: A Novel in Verse. By Anne Carson. (Knopf,
$23.) A compulsively readable hybrid work by a scholar and poet who
reimagines a lost Greek poem into a destructive love affair between
Hercules and an American boy who is also (somehow) a winged red
monster. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BAD CHEMISTRY. By Gary Krist. (Random House, $24.) Featuring a
headless body, inflammable dogs, a 14-year-old sleuthing
techno-nerd and Beatrix Potter, this first novel is as much a
meditation on the power of secrets as it is a detective story. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BARNEY POLAN'S GAME: A Novel of the 1951 College Basketball
Scandals. By Charley Rosen. (Seven Stories, $23.95.) Barney, a
sports columnist for The Brooklyn Sentinel, is an old-fashioned
guy, a would-be novelist whose misfortune is excessive proximity to
his material when the corruptions of the gray 1950's arrive. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BARNEY'S VERSION. By Mordecai Richler. (Knopf, $25.) Like much
of Richler's fiction, this novel seeks to evaluate Jewishness,
Canadianhood and the struggle for personal integrity; but this time
it's told by a hero whose memory is failing, making the moral task
all the harder. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BIRTHDAY LETTERS. By Ted Hughes. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $20.)
A collection of poems by the widower of Sylvia Plath, giving his
side of their tempestuous relationship. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BODY PARTS: Stories. By Jere Hoar. (University Press of
Mississippi, $26.) Mythologies and manners of the 20th-century
American South, by a keen and fearless observer -- brave enough to
live in Faulkner's Oxford and cheeky enough to create a new member
of the Snopes family. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BRAIN STORM. By Richard Dooling. (Random House, $25.) A tightly
packed thriller whose hero, a lawyer who justifiably hates his
loathsome client, becomes sexually involved with a reductive brain
researcher who can explain anything away. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BRINGING OUT THE DEAD. By Joe Connelly. (Knopf, $23.) A first
novel about a paramedic who is driven to despair by the devastation
he witnesses. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CAVEDWELLER. By Dorothy Allison. (Dutton, $24.95.) A
rock-and-roll singer returns home to Georgia and the children she
abandoned, in the second novel by the author of ``Bastard Out of
Carolina.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CELEBRATION. By Harry Crews. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $23.) In his
16th novel, Crews ponders the effect of a voluptuous teen-ager
named Too Much on a retirees' trailer park. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CHARMING BILLY. By Alice McDermott. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux,
$22.) A life distorted by a lie, and by the expectations of others,
is the matter of this eloquent, unsettling novel, set among
Irish-Americans in New York. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CITIES OF THE PLAIN: Volume 3, ``The Border Trilogy.'' By Cormac
McCarthy. (Knopf, $24.) The concluding volume of the current cowboy
saga by this stubborn, long-winded, fascinating writer (many of his
characters are like that too). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CLOUDSPLITTER. By Russell Banks. (Harper Flamingo/HarperCollins,
$27.50.) The narrator of Banks's novel, a son of John Brown,
renders the challenge (which he failed) of living with an insanely
correct fanatic before the Civil War. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE COAST OF GOOD INTENTIONS: Stories. By Michael Byers.
(Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, paper, $12.) Gently resigned stories,
melancholy and hopeful at once, about loss and accommodation in the
lives of very different kinds of people. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DAMASCUS GATE. By Robert Stone. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) A
pyrophoric mix of extreme religious persuasions explodes in the
face of Stone's skeptical hero in Jerusalem's Old City. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE DOWER HOUSE. By Annabel Davis-Goff. (St. Martin's, $22.95.)
Snobbery, need, coldness, inertia and purposelessness intersect in
this frankly old-fashioned novel about the Anglo-Irish aristocracy,
living on leftovers in the 20th century. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DREAMER. By Charles Johnson. (Scribner, $23.) A novel that
illuminates the life work of Martin Luther King Jr. by exploring
the soul of an ordinary man who is King's physical double. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ENDURING LOVE. By Ian McEwan. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $23.95.)
Another eerie novel by the author of ``The Cement Garden''; this
time the tour de force involves a science writer who is the victim,
or beneficiary, of a homoerotic religious obsession he has done
nothing to deserve. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE EVERLASTING STORY OF NORY. By Nicholson Baker. (Random
House, $22.) The novelist turns his magnifier on the mentation of a
9-year-old girl protagonist; the details, and the comedy they bring
forth, are sharp and clear. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FLYING LEAP: Stories. By Judy Budnitz. (Picador USA, $20.) A
first collection, by a 26-year-old cartoonist for The Village
Voice; her narratives are bold enough to posit a man in a dog suit
who is able to pass, or a high school pep squad that immolates
itself out of sheer enthusiasm. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GLORIE. By Caryn James. (Zoland, $24.) A novel, by the chief
television critic of The Times, that investigates character and the
fear of loss through its widowed septuagenarian protagonist's
struggle to avoid selling her home. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GOD IS MY BROKER: A Monk-Tycoon Reveals the 7 Laws of Spiritual
and Financial Growth. By Brother Ty with Christopher Buckley and
John Tierney. (Random House, $20.) A fictional sendup of self-help,
by two experienced senduppers. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HALF-LIFE OF HAPPINESS. By John Casey. (Knopf, $25.) This
spacious novel's hypersensitive and often uncharitable narrator
analyzes the failure of her parents' marriage as her mother falls
in love with another woman and her father grows becalmed in the
everyday. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HEALING. By Gayl Jones. (Beacon, $23.) A wry and funny novel
in which violence and paranoia are banished by a kind of faith that
is happy with illogic and depends (like analysis) on free
association toward insight. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HEMINGWAY'S CHAIR. By Michael Palin. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's,
$23.95.) Written by a former member of Monty Python's Flying
Circus, this novel tells the story of a sweet-tempered, prudish
postal worker who suddenly goes batty. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HORACE AFOOT. By Frederick Reuss. (MacMurray &AMP; Beck, $25.) The
hero of this debut novel lives as a modern-day ascetic in a town
called Oblivion and, in middle age, makes his first tentative stabs
at human connection. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HOURMASTER. By Christophe Bataille. (New Directions, $17.95.) A
French novelist's fable without a moral, in which 218 clocks drown
out the hiss of nothingness in an isolated seaside castle. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HOUSE GUN. By Nadine Gordimer. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux,
$24.) An elegantly conceived political novel of physical violence
and spiritual turmoil that assault a liberal white family in
post-apartheid South Africa. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HOUSE OF SLEEP. By Jonathan Coe. (Knopf, $24.) A witty,
intricate novel (Coe's second) whose four chief characters live in
engaging, unpredictable communion with dreams. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   IDENTITY. By Milan Kundera. (HarperCollins, $23.) The naive hero
sends anonymous love letters to his lover, setting off events that
illuminate their psychological obsessions and miscommunication. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   IN ANOTHER PLACE, NOT HERE. By Dionne Brand. (Grove, $24.) A
first novel, passionately attentive to nuance, that explores the
transit between the Caribbean and North America through a love
affair between two women. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE INLAND ICE: And Other Stories. By Eilis Ni Dhuibhne.
(Blackstaff/Dufour, paper, $16.95.) Fiction, graced with
head-versus-heart knowingness, about people on whom Ireland imposes
timid choices and straitened lives. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AN INSTANCE OF THE FINGERPOST. By Iain Pears. (Riverhead, $27.)
This intricate literary thriller, elaborately plotted and
superlatively researched, casts real Restoration figures in a
mystery about the murder of an Oxford don (and a much greater crime
to which it is adjoined). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE IRON TRACK. By Aharon Appelfeld. (Schocken, $21.) Tracing
for some 40 years the vanished outposts of Jewish life in central
Europe, Appelfeld's narrator and protagonist compresses big themes
of revenge, recovery and the weight of history into this short
Israeli novel. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (PART ONE ENDS HERE AT 1,400 WORDS; PART TWO _ MORE
FICTION/POETRY SUGGESTIONS _ RUNS 1,300 WORDS. NONFICTION LISTINGS,
AT 1,000 OR SO WORDS EACH, COMPRISE PARTS THREE THROUGH SIX. PART
SEVEN COVERS MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0009 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:52 ',
			header: '
A4149 &Cx1f; tab-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 1726
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part2of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; Israeli novel. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (FICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   JACK MAGGS. By Peter Carey. (Knopf, $24.) A sly, enticing,
sophisticated sort of paranovel, in which the characters are
fun-house images of real and imaginary people in the life and work
of Dickens, especially those associated with ``Great
Expectations.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KALIMANTAAN. By C. S. Godshalk. (Marian Wood/Holt, $25.) A
formidably imaginative first novel in which a man's idealized love
for his dead mother powers British imperialism in Borneo. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KAROO. By Steve Tesich. (Harcourt Brace, $24.) A Hollywood
script doctor destroys another man's great film to further a
personal agenda in this posthumous novel by the screenwriter of
``Breaking Away.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE KNIFE THROWER: And Other Stories. By Steven Millhauser.
(Crown, $22.) Stories whose characters -- dreamers, artists,
illusionists -- all run to excess as the author explores our
responses to the products and projections of our own minds. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LEONARDO'S HORSE. By R. M. Berry. (FC2 Press, paper, $13.95.)
Leonardo da Vinci is cast as a failure, a great prodigy of little
accomplishment, in a novel-within-this-novel (the fictitious
author, an academic, isn't doing so well himself). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A LOVER'S ALMANAC. By Maureen Howard. (Viking, $24.95.) Taking
as her model the ``Old Farmer's Almanac,'' the novelist plumbs the
shallows of millennial irrationality as she follows two young
members of Generation X into the year 2000. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   MENDEL'S DWARF. By Simon Mawer. (Harmony, $23.) Moral,
historical and philosophical considerations about genetics pervade
this thematically ambitious novel whose hero is a dwarf and a
distant relative of Gregor Mendel, the monk who founded genetics. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MOORING OF STARTING OUT: The First Five Books of Poetry. By
John Ashbery. (Ecco, $25.) This collection of the poet's work from
1956 to 1972 demonstrates Ashbery's tireless effort to remain
poetically fresh. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NIGHT TRAIN. By Martin Amis. (Harmony, $20.) Amis's ninth novel
is a tightly constructed, darkly romantic police procedural about a
suicide; it defers to genre conventions while probing deeply into
questions of human motivation. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NOBODY'S GIRL. By Antonya Nelson. (Scribner, $22.) A tartly
phrased novel of moral and social isolation whose heroine,
self-exiled in one of New Mexico's empty quarters, has broken off
connections after her mother's death. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NOSFERATU. By Jim Shepard. (Knopf, $22.) This novel, whose hero
sees himself as a vampire lover of sorts, imaginatively
reconstructs the amorous and creative lives of the director F. W.
Murnau. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AN OCTAVE ABOVE THUNDER: New and Selected Poems. By Carol Muske.
(Penguin, paper, $16.95.) Work culled from over two decades of
writing by a poet who invites readers to peer over her shoulder and
see how she's doing. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OYSTER. By Janette Turner Hospital. (Norton, $25.95.) A
half-surreal novel set in a dreamscape Australia, populated by
frontiersmen and cultists whose consciousness, warped by extreme
conditions, ignites a combustive disaster. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PARADISE. By Toni Morrison. (Knopf, $25.) A characteristically
ambitious, troubling, complicated novel set in a small black utopia
whose ineluctable encounter with the ``real'' world has both tragic
and regenerative consequences. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A PATCHWORK PLANET. By Anne Tyler. (Knopf, $24.) Tyler's 14th
novel concerns a 29-year-old underachiever, estranged from his
family and subject to terrible attacks of clarity. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PRESTON FALLS. By David Gates. (Knopf, $25.) A novel whose
hero's only available mode is the relentless irony of denial (he
works in public relations), while his wife's equally monotone
program is the simulation of normality. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   QUARANTINE. By Jim Crace. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $23.)
Expanding on the accounts of the Gospels, this novel by a wizard at
rendering other times and cultures reinterprets Jesus' 40-day fast
in the wilderness at the beginning of His mission. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   RIVEN ROCK. By T. Coraghessan Boyle. (Viking, $24.95.) A rich
madman lives cloistered away from women for 20 years because he
both loves and hates them far too much in this purplish novel
starring some real early-20th-century Americans. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A SCIENTIFIC ROMANCE. By Ronald Wright. (Picador USA, $23.) A
skillful, thoughtful fantasy of the postmillennium whose hero,
traveling in H. G. Wells's very own time machine, discovers a
Thames flowing through ``steaming everglades'' and harboring
crocodiles in A.D. 2500. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SELECTED POEMS. By Harvey Shapiro. (Wesleyan
University/University Press of New England, paper, $12.95.) Fresh,
informal, metrically traditional work that balances life and
experience in two countries, of which one is New York City and the
other is Judaism. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SHROUD OF THE GNOMES: Poems. By James Tate. (Ecco, $23.) Beneath
a nearly impenetrable modern surface, tried-and-true pieties:
peace, happiness, human connection and the pleasures of pure
ordinariness are possible after pain. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SINGING INTO THE PIANO. By Ted Mooney. (Knopf, $25.) Sex is the
ultimate transaction in this novel about American-Mexican
relations. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SKY, THE STARS, THE WILDERNESS. By Rick Bass. (Houghton
Mifflin, $23.) Three novellas of diverse character that offer an
unsentimental but ecstatic portrayal of the physical world. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. By Gore Vidal. (Random House, $23.)
In his 23d novel, Vidal offers a larky and thought-provoking
excursion through American history. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SOLIBO MAGNIFICENT. By Patrick Chamoiseau. (Pantheon, $23.)
Published in French in 1988, this novel concerns a storyteller
whose death from strangulation by words is an emblem of French in
conflict with Creole and of the author's will to pick up where the
Caribbean oral tradition left off. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SPENDING: A Utopian Divertimento. By Mary Gordon. (Scribner,
$24.) A best-of-all-worlds fantasy novel in which a painter, a
middle-aged woman, faces a choice between worldly comfort
(including sex and money) and the artistic struggle, and manages to
have it both ways. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SPRINGS OF AFFECTION: Stories of Dublin. By Maeve Brennan.
(Houghton Mifflin, $24.) A posthumous collection about the strength
and weakness of insularity, the small joys and unrealized dreams of
a single corner of Dublin. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   STARTING OUT IN THE EVENING. By Brian Morton. (Crown, $25.) The
forcefully ordered life of an aging, out-of-print novelist is
suddenly ruptured when he finds himself the subject of a sensitive
young woman's master's thesis. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SUMMER AT GAGLOW. By Esther Freud. (Ecco, $23.95.) A shrewd,
absorbing novel about a family whose notions of ``home'' change as
their relations with the onetime family estate in Germany alter. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TALES FROM OVID. By Ted Hughes. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $25.)
The mellifluities of the Roman poet subjected to the rough
sensibilities of the English poet's often dark and stormy
Yorkshire. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THIS SIDE OF BRIGHTNESS. By Colum McCann. (Metropolitan/Holt,
$23.) A painful, disturbing novel in which three generations of a
troubled family decline from constructing the New York subway
system to inhabiting its dark tunnels. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TWO GUYS FROM VERONA: A Novel of Suburbia. By James Kaplan.
(Atlantic Monthly, $25.) A slightly futuristic account, set in
1999-2000, of the enduring friendship of two men whose lives
diverged after high school; one is a model businessman, the other
the town slacker. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ULTIMATE INTIMACY. By Ivan Klima. (Grove, $25.) The Czech
novelist explores issues of trust, forgiveness and love in this
novel about a pastor who has an extramarital affair. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   VISITORS. By Anita Brookner. (Random House, $23.) In a novel
largely unobscured by the excess baggage of plot, Brookner
illuminates the private dignity of a 70-year-old widow as she
struggles to survive the exquisite alienation of age. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WHITE BOYS: Stories. By Reginald McKnight. (Holt, $23.) A
collection of stories about members of the black middle class that
reflects the complexities of racial interactions. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A WIDOW FOR ONE YEAR. By John Irving. (Random House, $27.95.) A
large, entertaining novel with four main characters, all writers,
and lots of sexual farce and occasional brutality. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A WORKING GIRL CAN'T WIN: And Other Poems. By Deborah Garrison.
(Random House, $15.) Lyrics that form a kind of whole, with stories
at their centers, written around the axes of work and love, small
frustrations and larger losses. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART TWO (1,300 WORDS). PARTS THREE THROUGH SIX _ A
LIST OF NONFICTION RECOMMENDATIONS (AT 1,000 WORDS OR SO EACH) _
FOLLOW. PART SEVEN COMPRISES MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION
TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New York Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (To publish any part of the list, it must be purchased _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; Israeli novel. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (FICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   JACK MAGGS. By Peter Carey. (Knopf, $24.) A sly, enticing,
sophisticated sort of paranovel, in which the characters are
fun-house images of real and imaginary people in the life and work
of Dickens, especially those associated with ``Great
Expectations.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KALIMANTAAN. By C. S. Godshalk. (Marian Wood/Holt, $25.) A
formidably imaginative first novel in which a man's idealized love
for his dead mother powers British imperialism in Borneo. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KAROO. By Steve Tesich. (Harcourt Brace, $24.) A Hollywood
script doctor destroys another man's great film to further a
personal agenda in this posthumous novel by the screenwriter of
``Breaking Away.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE KNIFE THROWER: And Other Stories. By Steven Millhauser.
(Crown, $22.) Stories whose characters -- dreamers, artists,
illusionists -- all run to excess as the author explores our
responses to the products and projections of our own minds. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LEONARDO'S HORSE. By R. M. Berry. (FC2 Press, paper, $13.95.)
Leonardo da Vinci is cast as a failure, a great prodigy of little
accomplishment, in a novel-within-this-novel (the fictitious
author, an academic, isn't doing so well himself). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A LOVER'S ALMANAC. By Maureen Howard. (Viking, $24.95.) Taking
as her model the ``Old Farmer's Almanac,'' the novelist plumbs the
shallows of millennial irrationality as she follows two young
members of Generation X into the year 2000. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   MENDEL'S DWARF. By Simon Mawer. (Harmony, $23.) Moral,
historical and philosophical considerations about genetics pervade
this thematically ambitious novel whose hero is a dwarf and a
distant relative of Gregor Mendel, the monk who founded genetics. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MOORING OF STARTING OUT: The First Five Books of Poetry. By
John Ashbery. (Ecco, $25.) This collection of the poet's work from
1956 to 1972 demonstrates Ashbery's tireless effort to remain
poetically fresh. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NIGHT TRAIN. By Martin Amis. (Harmony, $20.) Amis's ninth novel
is a tightly constructed, darkly romantic police procedural about a
suicide; it defers to genre conventions while probing deeply into
questions of human motivation. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NOBODY'S GIRL. By Antonya Nelson. (Scribner, $22.) A tartly
phrased novel of moral and social isolation whose heroine,
self-exiled in one of New Mexico's empty quarters, has broken off
connections after her mother's death. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NOSFERATU. By Jim Shepard. (Knopf, $22.) This novel, whose hero
sees himself as a vampire lover of sorts, imaginatively
reconstructs the amorous and creative lives of the director F. W.
Murnau. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AN OCTAVE ABOVE THUNDER: New and Selected Poems. By Carol Muske.
(Penguin, paper, $16.95.) Work culled from over two decades of
writing by a poet who invites readers to peer over her shoulder and
see how she's doing. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OYSTER. By Janette Turner Hospital. (Norton, $25.95.) A
half-surreal novel set in a dreamscape Australia, populated by
frontiersmen and cultists whose consciousness, warped by extreme
conditions, ignites a combustive disaster. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PARADISE. By Toni Morrison. (Knopf, $25.) A characteristically
ambitious, troubling, complicated novel set in a small black utopia
whose ineluctable encounter with the ``real'' world has both tragic
and regenerative consequences. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A PATCHWORK PLANET. By Anne Tyler. (Knopf, $24.) Tyler's 14th
novel concerns a 29-year-old underachiever, estranged from his
family and subject to terrible attacks of clarity. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PRESTON FALLS. By David Gates. (Knopf, $25.) A novel whose
hero's only available mode is the relentless irony of denial (he
works in public relations), while his wife's equally monotone
program is the simulation of normality. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   QUARANTINE. By Jim Crace. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $23.)
Expanding on the accounts of the Gospels, this novel by a wizard at
rendering other times and cultures reinterprets Jesus' 40-day fast
in the wilderness at the beginning of His mission. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   RIVEN ROCK. By T. Coraghessan Boyle. (Viking, $24.95.) A rich
madman lives cloistered away from women for 20 years because he
both loves and hates them far too much in this purplish novel
starring some real early-20th-century Americans. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A SCIENTIFIC ROMANCE. By Ronald Wright. (Picador USA, $23.) A
skillful, thoughtful fantasy of the postmillennium whose hero,
traveling in H. G. Wells's very own time machine, discovers a
Thames flowing through ``steaming everglades'' and harboring
crocodiles in A.D. 2500. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SELECTED POEMS. By Harvey Shapiro. (Wesleyan
University/University Press of New England, paper, $12.95.) Fresh,
informal, metrically traditional work that balances life and
experience in two countries, of which one is New York City and the
other is Judaism. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SHROUD OF THE GNOMES: Poems. By James Tate. (Ecco, $23.) Beneath
a nearly impenetrable modern surface, tried-and-true pieties:
peace, happiness, human connection and the pleasures of pure
ordinariness are possible after pain. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SINGING INTO THE PIANO. By Ted Mooney. (Knopf, $25.) Sex is the
ultimate transaction in this novel about American-Mexican
relations. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SKY, THE STARS, THE WILDERNESS. By Rick Bass. (Houghton
Mifflin, $23.) Three novellas of diverse character that offer an
unsentimental but ecstatic portrayal of the physical world. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. By Gore Vidal. (Random House, $23.)
In his 23d novel, Vidal offers a larky and thought-provoking
excursion through American history. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SOLIBO MAGNIFICENT. By Patrick Chamoiseau. (Pantheon, $23.)
Published in French in 1988, this novel concerns a storyteller
whose death from strangulation by words is an emblem of French in
conflict with Creole and of the author's will to pick up where the
Caribbean oral tradition left off. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SPENDING: A Utopian Divertimento. By Mary Gordon. (Scribner,
$24.) A best-of-all-worlds fantasy novel in which a painter, a
middle-aged woman, faces a choice between worldly comfort
(including sex and money) and the artistic struggle, and manages to
have it both ways. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SPRINGS OF AFFECTION: Stories of Dublin. By Maeve Brennan.
(Houghton Mifflin, $24.) A posthumous collection about the strength
and weakness of insularity, the small joys and unrealized dreams of
a single corner of Dublin. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   STARTING OUT IN THE EVENING. By Brian Morton. (Crown, $25.) The
forcefully ordered life of an aging, out-of-print novelist is
suddenly ruptured when he finds himself the subject of a sensitive
young woman's master's thesis. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SUMMER AT GAGLOW. By Esther Freud. (Ecco, $23.95.) A shrewd,
absorbing novel about a family whose notions of ``home'' change as
their relations with the onetime family estate in Germany alter. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TALES FROM OVID. By Ted Hughes. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $25.)
The mellifluities of the Roman poet subjected to the rough
sensibilities of the English poet's often dark and stormy
Yorkshire. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THIS SIDE OF BRIGHTNESS. By Colum McCann. (Metropolitan/Holt,
$23.) A painful, disturbing novel in which three generations of a
troubled family decline from constructing the New York subway
system to inhabiting its dark tunnels. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TWO GUYS FROM VERONA: A Novel of Suburbia. By James Kaplan.
(Atlantic Monthly, $25.) A slightly futuristic account, set in
1999-2000, of the enduring friendship of two men whose lives
diverged after high school; one is a model businessman, the other
the town slacker. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ULTIMATE INTIMACY. By Ivan Klima. (Grove, $25.) The Czech
novelist explores issues of trust, forgiveness and love in this
novel about a pastor who has an extramarital affair. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   VISITORS. By Anita Brookner. (Random House, $23.) In a novel
largely unobscured by the excess baggage of plot, Brookner
illuminates the private dignity of a 70-year-old widow as she
struggles to survive the exquisite alienation of age. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WHITE BOYS: Stories. By Reginald McKnight. (Holt, $23.) A
collection of stories about members of the black middle class that
reflects the complexities of racial interactions. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A WIDOW FOR ONE YEAR. By John Irving. (Random House, $27.95.) A
large, entertaining novel with four main characters, all writers,
and lots of sexual farce and occasional brutality. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A WORKING GIRL CAN'T WIN: And Other Poems. By Deborah Garrison.
(Random House, $15.) Lyrics that form a kind of whole, with stories
at their centers, written around the axes of work and love, small
frustrations and larger losses. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART TWO (1,300 WORDS). PARTS THREE THROUGH SIX _ A
LIST OF NONFICTION RECOMMENDATIONS (AT 1,000 WORDS OR SO EACH) _
FOLLOW. PART SEVEN COMPRISES MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION
TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0010 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:54 ',
			header: '
A4151 &Cx1f; tab-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 1379
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part3of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; larger losses. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; NONFICTION &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ACHIEVING OUR COUNTRY: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century
America. By Richard Rorty. (Harvard University, $18.95.) A witty
and distinguished philosopher appeals to American intellectuals to
return to the political ideals of Emerson, Dewey and other
ancestors. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AGENT OF DESTINY: The Life and Times of General Winfield Scott.
By John S. D. Eisenhower. (Free Press, $27.50.) A historian's
reliable, readable biography of a brilliant soldier whose
reputation has been clouded because he was fat, pompous and 75 when
the Civil War broke out. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ALBERT CAMUS: A Life. By Olivier Todd. (Knopf, $30.) A biography
of the near-proletarian from Algeria who reached the top of the
literary pole in Paris, then fell silent when he could not defend
the fashionable Stalinism of the 1950's. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ALEXANDER SOLZHENITSYN: A Century in His Life. By D. M. Thomas.
(St. Martin's, $29.95.) A distinguished novelist's in-depth
evaluation of an illustrious writer whose deepest beliefs have cut
him off from the liberals who once idolized him. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AMAZING GRACE: A Life of Beauford Delaney. By David Leeming.
(Oxford University, $30.) An impressionistic account, based on
solid research, of the black artist, trickster and saint whose life
ended in a Paris madhouse in 1979. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AMAZING GRACE: A Vocabulary of Faith. By Kathleen Norris.
(Riverhead, $24.95.) An engaging meditation on the language of
faith and on the author's effort to penetrate conventional terms. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ANTON CHEKHOV: A Life. By Donald Rayfield. (Holt, $35.) New
research in Russian archives yields a new Chekhov, in whom the
plaster saint of Soviet biography acquires an active and
interesting sex life and the dismissive callousness a busy artist
often requires. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ARE YOU SOMEBODY: The Accidental Memoir of a Dublin Woman. By
Nuala O'Faolain. (Holt, $21.) These recollections of a journalist
incorporate booze, guilt, repression, poverty and other imperatives
of the Irish narrative while skirting its affectations and
sentimentalities. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ART OF SCANDAL: THE LIFE AND TIMES OF ISABELLA STEWART
GARDNER. By Douglass Shand-Tucci. (HarperCollins, $27.50.) The life
of a mercantile heiress who, with splendid disregard for
19th-century mores, drove too fast, smoked too much and in between
amassed a museumful of the most magnificent art ever collected. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BALLET 101: A Complete Guide to Learning and Loving the Ballet.
By Robert Greskovic. (Hyperion, paper, $16.95.) An intelligent and
enthusiastic handbook for the grown-up who has fallen in love with
the ballet and wants to know more. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE BEAST IN THE NURSERY. By Adam Phillips. (Pantheon, $21.) A
lively treatment of psychoanalysis by a British therapist who
argues that its goal is the exploration and treatment of disordered
-- i.e., suppressed -- curiosity. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BETWEEN DIGNITY AND DESPAIR: Jewish Life in Nazi Germany. By
Marion A. Kaplan. (Oxford University, $30.) An intimate
reconstruction, built from memoirs, letters and interviews, of
endless humiliations, from stupid to atrocious. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE BOYS OF MY YOUTH. By Jo Ann Beard. (Little, Brown, $22.95.)
Personal essays in a charming, comfortable voice, about childhood
and adolescence in a Midwest where only the sharpness of the
author's eye was remarkable. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CAGNEY. By John McCabe. (Knopf, $29.95.) Cagney, the likable pug
on screen, was a retiring man; his private life and sensibilities
are more available in this book by his former ghostwriter than in
anything published before his death. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE CHILDREN. By David Halberstam. (Random House, $29.95.) A
powerful, densely packed rendering of the civil rights movement and
the young black elite who led it, by a reporter who was present
from the beginning in 1950's Nashville.  &LR;  &QL;

   CHOPIN IN PARIS: The Life and Times of the Romantic Composer. By
Tad Szulc. (Scribner, $30.) An appealing, gossipy chronicle,
abounding in detail and based in part on previously untranslated
material, by a former diplomatic correspondent of The New York
Times. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CITIZEN SOLDIERS: The U.S. Army From the Normandy Beaches to the
Bulge to the Surrender of Germany, June 7, 1944-May 7, 1945. By
Stephen E. Ambrose. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $27.50.) Continuing the
account given in ``D-Day'' (1994), the historian resumes his
examination of the ordinary soldier's experience in World War II. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE CLIMB: Tragic Ambitions on Everest. By Anatoli Boukreev and
G. Weston DeWalt. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) A haunting version of the
1996 storm that killed eight climbers, with character revelations
about the Russian mountain nut who remained effective and saved
three lives. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CLONE: THE ROAD TO DOLLY, AND THE PATH AHEAD. By Gina Kolata.
(Morrow, $23.) Dolly the sheep and how she got that way, told by a
reporter for The New York Times who lays out the scientific and
ethical issues that cloning has spawned. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE COMMANDING HEIGHTS: The Battle Between Government and the
Marketplace That Is Remaking the Modern World. By Daniel Yergin and
Joseph Stanislaw. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $26.) An ambitious, colorful,
even suspenseful rendition of a world gaining faith in market
forces while losing its belief in government dirigisme. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CONFEDERATES IN THE ATTIC: Dispatches From the Unfinished Civil
War. By Tony Horwitz. (Pantheon, $27.50.) A Wall Street Journal
reporter and moderate Civil War buff signs up with a troop of
extreme battle re-enactors, encountering many die-hard eccentrics
in a still unreconciled South. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CONSILIENCE: The Unity of Knowledge. By Edward O. Wilson.
(Knopf, $26.) The eminent sociobiologist envisions a grand
reconciliation of science and the humanities. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   COUNTRY, PARK, &AMP; CITY: The Architecture and Life of Calvert
Vaux. By Francis R. Kowsky. (Oxford University, $45.) A handsome
effort to rescue from comparative oblivion the architect who shared
-- sometimes more than equally -- with Frederick Law Olmsted in the
design of Central Park and other New York amenities. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CRABCAKES. By James Alan McPherson. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $23.)
Part lilting memoir, part anxious meditation, this book chronicles
McPherson's quest to experience his life authentically. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DANCING WITH STRANGERS: A Memoir. By Mel Watkins. (Simon &AMP;
Shuster, $24.) Coming-of-age recollections by a former editor at
the Book Review, a black man of independent mind and little
patience with those of any race who too easily arrive at
conclusions. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART THREE (1,000 WORDS). PARTS FOUR THROUGH SIX _
ADDITIONAL NONFICTION LISTINGS _ FOLLOW. PART SEVEN COMPRISES
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New York Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly-regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (To publish any part of the list, it must be purchased _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; larger losses. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; NONFICTION &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ACHIEVING OUR COUNTRY: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century
America. By Richard Rorty. (Harvard University, $18.95.) A witty
and distinguished philosopher appeals to American intellectuals to
return to the political ideals of Emerson, Dewey and other
ancestors. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AGENT OF DESTINY: The Life and Times of General Winfield Scott.
By John S. D. Eisenhower. (Free Press, $27.50.) A historian's
reliable, readable biography of a brilliant soldier whose
reputation has been clouded because he was fat, pompous and 75 when
the Civil War broke out. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ALBERT CAMUS: A Life. By Olivier Todd. (Knopf, $30.) A biography
of the near-proletarian from Algeria who reached the top of the
literary pole in Paris, then fell silent when he could not defend
the fashionable Stalinism of the 1950's. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ALEXANDER SOLZHENITSYN: A Century in His Life. By D. M. Thomas.
(St. Martin's, $29.95.) A distinguished novelist's in-depth
evaluation of an illustrious writer whose deepest beliefs have cut
him off from the liberals who once idolized him. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AMAZING GRACE: A Life of Beauford Delaney. By David Leeming.
(Oxford University, $30.) An impressionistic account, based on
solid research, of the black artist, trickster and saint whose life
ended in a Paris madhouse in 1979. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AMAZING GRACE: A Vocabulary of Faith. By Kathleen Norris.
(Riverhead, $24.95.) An engaging meditation on the language of
faith and on the author's effort to penetrate conventional terms. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ANTON CHEKHOV: A Life. By Donald Rayfield. (Holt, $35.) New
research in Russian archives yields a new Chekhov, in whom the
plaster saint of Soviet biography acquires an active and
interesting sex life and the dismissive callousness a busy artist
often requires. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ARE YOU SOMEBODY: The Accidental Memoir of a Dublin Woman. By
Nuala O'Faolain. (Holt, $21.) These recollections of a journalist
incorporate booze, guilt, repression, poverty and other imperatives
of the Irish narrative while skirting its affectations and
sentimentalities. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ART OF SCANDAL: THE LIFE AND TIMES OF ISABELLA STEWART
GARDNER. By Douglass Shand-Tucci. (HarperCollins, $27.50.) The life
of a mercantile heiress who, with splendid disregard for
19th-century mores, drove too fast, smoked too much and in between
amassed a museumful of the most magnificent art ever collected. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BALLET 101: A Complete Guide to Learning and Loving the Ballet.
By Robert Greskovic. (Hyperion, paper, $16.95.) An intelligent and
enthusiastic handbook for the grown-up who has fallen in love with
the ballet and wants to know more. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE BEAST IN THE NURSERY. By Adam Phillips. (Pantheon, $21.) A
lively treatment of psychoanalysis by a British therapist who
argues that its goal is the exploration and treatment of disordered
-- i.e., suppressed -- curiosity. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BETWEEN DIGNITY AND DESPAIR: Jewish Life in Nazi Germany. By
Marion A. Kaplan. (Oxford University, $30.) An intimate
reconstruction, built from memoirs, letters and interviews, of
endless humiliations, from stupid to atrocious. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE BOYS OF MY YOUTH. By Jo Ann Beard. (Little, Brown, $22.95.)
Personal essays in a charming, comfortable voice, about childhood
and adolescence in a Midwest where only the sharpness of the
author's eye was remarkable. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CAGNEY. By John McCabe. (Knopf, $29.95.) Cagney, the likable pug
on screen, was a retiring man; his private life and sensibilities
are more available in this book by his former ghostwriter than in
anything published before his death. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE CHILDREN. By David Halberstam. (Random House, $29.95.) A
powerful, densely packed rendering of the civil rights movement and
the young black elite who led it, by a reporter who was present
from the beginning in 1950's Nashville.  &LR;  &QL;

   CHOPIN IN PARIS: The Life and Times of the Romantic Composer. By
Tad Szulc. (Scribner, $30.) An appealing, gossipy chronicle,
abounding in detail and based in part on previously untranslated
material, by a former diplomatic correspondent of The New York
Times. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CITIZEN SOLDIERS: The U.S. Army From the Normandy Beaches to the
Bulge to the Surrender of Germany, June 7, 1944-May 7, 1945. By
Stephen E. Ambrose. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $27.50.) Continuing the
account given in ``D-Day'' (1994), the historian resumes his
examination of the ordinary soldier's experience in World War II. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE CLIMB: Tragic Ambitions on Everest. By Anatoli Boukreev and
G. Weston DeWalt. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) A haunting version of the
1996 storm that killed eight climbers, with character revelations
about the Russian mountain nut who remained effective and saved
three lives. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CLONE: THE ROAD TO DOLLY, AND THE PATH AHEAD. By Gina Kolata.
(Morrow, $23.) Dolly the sheep and how she got that way, told by a
reporter for The New York Times who lays out the scientific and
ethical issues that cloning has spawned. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE COMMANDING HEIGHTS: The Battle Between Government and the
Marketplace That Is Remaking the Modern World. By Daniel Yergin and
Joseph Stanislaw. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $26.) An ambitious, colorful,
even suspenseful rendition of a world gaining faith in market
forces while losing its belief in government dirigisme. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CONFEDERATES IN THE ATTIC: Dispatches From the Unfinished Civil
War. By Tony Horwitz. (Pantheon, $27.50.) A Wall Street Journal
reporter and moderate Civil War buff signs up with a troop of
extreme battle re-enactors, encountering many die-hard eccentrics
in a still unreconciled South. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CONSILIENCE: The Unity of Knowledge. By Edward O. Wilson.
(Knopf, $26.) The eminent sociobiologist envisions a grand
reconciliation of science and the humanities. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   COUNTRY, PARK, &AMP; CITY: The Architecture and Life of Calvert
Vaux. By Francis R. Kowsky. (Oxford University, $45.) A handsome
effort to rescue from comparative oblivion the architect who shared
-- sometimes more than equally -- with Frederick Law Olmsted in the
design of Central Park and other New York amenities. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CRABCAKES. By James Alan McPherson. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $23.)
Part lilting memoir, part anxious meditation, this book chronicles
McPherson's quest to experience his life authentically. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DANCING WITH STRANGERS: A Memoir. By Mel Watkins. (Simon &AMP;
Shuster, $24.) Coming-of-age recollections by a former editor at
the Book Review, a black man of independent mind and little
patience with those of any race who too easily arrive at
conclusions. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART THREE (1,000 WORDS). PARTS FOUR THROUGH SIX _
ADDITIONAL NONFICTION LISTINGS _ FOLLOW. PART SEVEN COMPRISES
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0011 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:55 ',
			header: '
A4152 &Cx1f; tab-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 1267
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part4of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; arrive at conclusions. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (NONFICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DEAR GENIUS: The Letters of Ursula Nordstrom. Edited by Leonard
S. Marcus. (HarperCollins, $22.95.) The correspondence of the
children's books editor whose authors included Maurice Sendak and
E. B. White. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DIPLOMACY FOR THE NEXT CENTURY. By Abba Eban. (Yale University,
$24.) A concise, elegant introduction to realism in foreign
affairs, by a man who learned lots of realism as Israel's principal
diplomatic voice for some 25 years. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DR. SPOCK: An American Life. By Thomas Maier. (Harcourt Brace,
$30.) A biography, written with the cooperation of its subject, of
the man who created modern child rearing. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE DREAM PALACE OF THE ARABS: A Generation's Odyssey. By Fouad
Ajami. (Pantheon, $26.) A vivid account of how, in the author's
view, Arab writers and intellectuals have neither accommodated to
international reality nor joined to create the Arab world they
badly need. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ELGIN AFFAIR: The Abduction of Antiquity's Greatest
Treasures and the Passions It Aroused. By Theodore Vrettos.
(Arcade, $26.95.) An account of the acquisition by Lord Elgin of
the sculptures from the Parthenon. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ERRATA: An Examined Life. By George Steiner. (Yale University,
$25.) Reminiscences from the literary critic best described as a
polyglot polymath. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   EVERYBODY WAS SO YOUNG. Gerald and Sara Murphy: A Lost
Generation Love Story. By Amanda Vaill. (Houghton Mifflin, $30.) A
skillful and comprehensive study of the rich, beautiful American
couple who knew everyone there was to know in Paris and Antibes in
the 1920's. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE FACTORY OF FACTS. By Luc Sante. (Pantheon, $24.) A sly,
elegant, engaging sort-of autobiography, an investigation of
selfhood as created in history, by a writer from Belgium and New
Jersey. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FLAWED GIANT: Lyndon Johnson and His Times, 1961-1973. By Robert
Dallek. (Oxford University, $35.) Unlike some other recent
renditions, this second half of a biography by a professional
historian shows a President often enough disproportionate but never
monstrous. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE. By Geraldine Brooks. (Anchor/Doubleday,
$22.95.) A journalist's generous, intelligent memoir of growing up
in an isolated Australia through pen pals, then going to find them
in the great world. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GENUINE REALITY: A Life of William James. By Linda Simon.
(Harcourt Brace, $35.) A biography that links James's philosophical
positions to his real-life experiences, some of which (debilitating
depression, for instance) are portrayed as lifelong issues, never
overcome by mind-cures. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GEORGE BUSH: The Life of a Lone Star Yankee. By Herbert S.
Parmet. (Lisa Drew/ Scribner, $32.50.) The first full-scale
biography raises the question (which remains unresolved) of whether
its subject ever followed his convictions rather than his
interests. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE GHOSTS OF MEDGAR EVERS: A Tale of Race, Murder, Mississippi
and Hollywood. By Willie Morris. (Random House, $23.) An account of
how the trial of Medgar Evers's assassin became a film. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE GREATEST BENEFIT TO MANKIND: A Medical History of Humanity.
By Roy Porter. (Norton, $35.) A prodigious history of medicine from
antiquity through issues like H.M.O.'s, tobacco companies and Dr.
Jack Kevorkian. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HACIENDA: A Memoir. By Lisa St. Aubin de Teran. (Little,
Brown, $23.95.) A nonfiction narration of the nightmare marriage to
a weird Venezuelan landowner that underlay the author's novel
``Keepers of the House'' (1982). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HEADING SOUTH, LOOKING NORTH: A Bilingual Journey. By Ariel
Dorfman. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $24.) A fascinating memoir of
the search for a home and an identity by a writer several times
exiled (from this country, among others), first for his parents'
beliefs, then his own. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A HISTORY OF EUROPE. By J. M. Roberts. (Allen Lane/Penguin,
$34.95.) A compact but comprehensive chronicle of the rise and fall
of the continent. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HISTORY OF JAZZ. By Ted Gioia. (Oxford University, $30.) An
all-encompassing short history of the genre that has dominated
20th-century music. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HONOR'S VOICE: The Transformation of Abraham Lincoln. By Douglas
L. Wilson. (Knopf, $30.) A solid new Lincoln portrait by a scholar
who starts not with Lincoln's greatness but with his actual
beginnings as a young man searching for identity and
self-definition. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   IN THE COUNTRY OF ILLNESS: Comfort and Advice for the Journey.
By Robert Lipsyte. (Knopf, $24.) Mortality confronted less with
advice than with hard-earned outrage, first at the author's cancer,
then his ex-wife's; by a columnist for the sports and City sections
of The Times. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   JANE AUSTEN: A Life. By Claire Tomalin. (Knopf, $27.50.) Another
one! Distinctive in its hypothesis that the incidents of Austen's
life were far less trivial than they may look to us now. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   JOHANNES BRAHMS: A Biography. By Jan Swafford. (Knopf, $35.) An
enormously informed life of the first truly bourgeois composer and
(probably) the first composer to feel oppressed and hobbled by the
greatness of his predecessors. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KENNETH TYNAN LETTERS. Edited by Kathleen Tynan. (Random House,
$30.) The correspondence of the brilliant English theater critic. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KILLING THE DREAM: James Earl Ray and the Assassination of
Martin Luther King, Jr. By Gerald Posner. (Random House, $25.) The
researcher who zapped Kennedy conspiracy theories in ``Case
Closed'' does likewise to Ray's claim of innocence in King's
death. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KURDISTAN: In the Shadow of History. By Susan Meiselas. (Random
House, $100.) The family album of a people without a country, held
in contempt by their masters and betrayed by distant friends;
rendered in photographs, memoirs and intelligence files by a
photojournalist who visited Iraq with a Human Rights Watch team. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART FOUR (1,000 WORDS). PARTS FIVE AND SIX _
ADDITIONAL NONFICTION RECOMMENDATIONS _ FOLLOW, AS WELL AS PART
SEVEN: MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New York Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (To publish any part of the list, it must be purchased _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; arrive at conclusions. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (NONFICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DEAR GENIUS: The Letters of Ursula Nordstrom. Edited by Leonard
S. Marcus. (HarperCollins, $22.95.) The correspondence of the
children's books editor whose authors included Maurice Sendak and
E. B. White. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DIPLOMACY FOR THE NEXT CENTURY. By Abba Eban. (Yale University,
$24.) A concise, elegant introduction to realism in foreign
affairs, by a man who learned lots of realism as Israel's principal
diplomatic voice for some 25 years. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DR. SPOCK: An American Life. By Thomas Maier. (Harcourt Brace,
$30.) A biography, written with the cooperation of its subject, of
the man who created modern child rearing. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE DREAM PALACE OF THE ARABS: A Generation's Odyssey. By Fouad
Ajami. (Pantheon, $26.) A vivid account of how, in the author's
view, Arab writers and intellectuals have neither accommodated to
international reality nor joined to create the Arab world they
badly need. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ELGIN AFFAIR: The Abduction of Antiquity's Greatest
Treasures and the Passions It Aroused. By Theodore Vrettos.
(Arcade, $26.95.) An account of the acquisition by Lord Elgin of
the sculptures from the Parthenon. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ERRATA: An Examined Life. By George Steiner. (Yale University,
$25.) Reminiscences from the literary critic best described as a
polyglot polymath. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   EVERYBODY WAS SO YOUNG. Gerald and Sara Murphy: A Lost
Generation Love Story. By Amanda Vaill. (Houghton Mifflin, $30.) A
skillful and comprehensive study of the rich, beautiful American
couple who knew everyone there was to know in Paris and Antibes in
the 1920's. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE FACTORY OF FACTS. By Luc Sante. (Pantheon, $24.) A sly,
elegant, engaging sort-of autobiography, an investigation of
selfhood as created in history, by a writer from Belgium and New
Jersey. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FLAWED GIANT: Lyndon Johnson and His Times, 1961-1973. By Robert
Dallek. (Oxford University, $35.) Unlike some other recent
renditions, this second half of a biography by a professional
historian shows a President often enough disproportionate but never
monstrous. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE. By Geraldine Brooks. (Anchor/Doubleday,
$22.95.) A journalist's generous, intelligent memoir of growing up
in an isolated Australia through pen pals, then going to find them
in the great world. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GENUINE REALITY: A Life of William James. By Linda Simon.
(Harcourt Brace, $35.) A biography that links James's philosophical
positions to his real-life experiences, some of which (debilitating
depression, for instance) are portrayed as lifelong issues, never
overcome by mind-cures. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GEORGE BUSH: The Life of a Lone Star Yankee. By Herbert S.
Parmet. (Lisa Drew/ Scribner, $32.50.) The first full-scale
biography raises the question (which remains unresolved) of whether
its subject ever followed his convictions rather than his
interests. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE GHOSTS OF MEDGAR EVERS: A Tale of Race, Murder, Mississippi
and Hollywood. By Willie Morris. (Random House, $23.) An account of
how the trial of Medgar Evers's assassin became a film. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE GREATEST BENEFIT TO MANKIND: A Medical History of Humanity.
By Roy Porter. (Norton, $35.) A prodigious history of medicine from
antiquity through issues like H.M.O.'s, tobacco companies and Dr.
Jack Kevorkian. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HACIENDA: A Memoir. By Lisa St. Aubin de Teran. (Little,
Brown, $23.95.) A nonfiction narration of the nightmare marriage to
a weird Venezuelan landowner that underlay the author's novel
``Keepers of the House'' (1982). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HEADING SOUTH, LOOKING NORTH: A Bilingual Journey. By Ariel
Dorfman. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $24.) A fascinating memoir of
the search for a home and an identity by a writer several times
exiled (from this country, among others), first for his parents'
beliefs, then his own. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A HISTORY OF EUROPE. By J. M. Roberts. (Allen Lane/Penguin,
$34.95.) A compact but comprehensive chronicle of the rise and fall
of the continent. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HISTORY OF JAZZ. By Ted Gioia. (Oxford University, $30.) An
all-encompassing short history of the genre that has dominated
20th-century music. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HONOR'S VOICE: The Transformation of Abraham Lincoln. By Douglas
L. Wilson. (Knopf, $30.) A solid new Lincoln portrait by a scholar
who starts not with Lincoln's greatness but with his actual
beginnings as a young man searching for identity and
self-definition. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   IN THE COUNTRY OF ILLNESS: Comfort and Advice for the Journey.
By Robert Lipsyte. (Knopf, $24.) Mortality confronted less with
advice than with hard-earned outrage, first at the author's cancer,
then his ex-wife's; by a columnist for the sports and City sections
of The Times. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   JANE AUSTEN: A Life. By Claire Tomalin. (Knopf, $27.50.) Another
one! Distinctive in its hypothesis that the incidents of Austen's
life were far less trivial than they may look to us now. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   JOHANNES BRAHMS: A Biography. By Jan Swafford. (Knopf, $35.) An
enormously informed life of the first truly bourgeois composer and
(probably) the first composer to feel oppressed and hobbled by the
greatness of his predecessors. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KENNETH TYNAN LETTERS. Edited by Kathleen Tynan. (Random House,
$30.) The correspondence of the brilliant English theater critic. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KILLING THE DREAM: James Earl Ray and the Assassination of
Martin Luther King, Jr. By Gerald Posner. (Random House, $25.) The
researcher who zapped Kennedy conspiracy theories in ``Case
Closed'' does likewise to Ray's claim of innocence in King's
death. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KURDISTAN: In the Shadow of History. By Susan Meiselas. (Random
House, $100.) The family album of a people without a country, held
in contempt by their masters and betrayed by distant friends;
rendered in photographs, memoirs and intelligence files by a
photojournalist who visited Iraq with a Human Rights Watch team. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART FOUR (1,000 WORDS). PARTS FIVE AND SIX _
ADDITIONAL NONFICTION RECOMMENDATIONS _ FOLLOW, AS WELL AS PART
SEVEN: MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0012 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:56 ',
			header: '
A4153 &Cx1f; tab-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 1404
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part5of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; Human Watch Rights team. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (NONFICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE LAST PATRICIAN: Bobby Kennedy and the End of American
Aristocracy. By Michael Knox Beran. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) A
lively, audacious argument that Robert F. Kennedy in his last years
had become what we would now call conservative. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LAUGHING MATTERS: On Writing ``M*A*S*H,'' ``Tootsie,'' ``Oh,
God!'' and a Few Other Funny Things. By Larry Gelbart. (Random
House, $24.) The comic master of television, Broadway and the
movies gives a characteristically eccentric -- and funny -- account
of his career. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LETTERS OF HEINRICH AND THOMAS MANN, 1900-1949. Edited by Hans
Wysling. (University of California, $50.) Correspondence between
two brothers, both novelists, one major, one minor. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A LEXICON OF TERROR: Argentina and the Legacies of Torture. By
Marguerite Feitlowitz. (Oxford University, $30.) A well-researched,
intimate, perceptive portrait of an Argentina still struggling with
the crime of the ``dirty war'' that ended nearly 20 years ago. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LIFE: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life
on Earth. By Richard Fortey. (Knopf, $30.) A popular, scholarly,
entertaining survey that brings the reader up to date on several
paleontological controversies. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LONG LIFE. By Nigel Nicolson. (Putnam, $29.95.) A casual,
confiding memoir by an 80-year-old man who is always excellent
company and has known the world and everyone in it in his career as
soldier, politician, publisher, squire and offspring of Harold
Nicolson and Vita Sackville-West. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   MADE POSSIBLE BY . . . : The Death of Public Broadcasting in the
United States. By James Ledbetter. (Verso, $25.) A vigorous if
ideologically biased argument that public television serves a
valuable function in our cultural life and should be protected from
political pressure. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MAN WHO ATE EVERYTHING: And Other Gastronomic Feats,
Disputes, and Pleasurable Pursuits. By Jeffrey Steingarten. (Knopf,
$27.50.) Round-the-world adventures from the outside in by Vogue's
food critic, who insists, in the face of all purse-mouthed dissent,
that food is good for us. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A MARITIME ALBUM: 100 Photographs and Their Stories. By John
Szarkowski and Richard Benson. (Mariners' Museum/Yale University,
$39.95.) Not a book of maritime history but a book of splendid
photographs that fire memory and imagination about the relationship
of humanity to its centuries of traffic with the sea. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   MARTIN HEIDEGGER: Between Good and Evil. By Rudiger Safranski.
(Harvard University, $35.) An evenhanded biography of a paradox: a
great and influential philosopher who was also a Nazi. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MEADOWLANDS: Wilderness Adventures at the Edge of a City. By
Robert Sullivan. (Scribner, $23.) Cool, alert ecological excursions
into the abused yet still beautiful and interesting terrain of the
New Jersey Meadowlands. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MEANING OF IT ALL: Thoughts of a Citizen Scientist. By
Richard P. Feynman. (Helix/Addison-Wesley, $22.) From the great
physicist's archives, three delightful lectures on science, society
and our precious freedom of ignorance. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   M. F. K. FISHER: A Life in Letters. Correspondence 1929-1991.
Selected and compiled by Norah K. Barr, Marsha Moran and Patrick
Moran. (Counterpoint, $35.) Fisher's quirky, finely controlled
voice is as much in evidence in her correspondence as in her wildly
admired writing on matters gastronomic. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A MOTHER'S PLACE: Taking the Debate About Working Mothers Beyond
Guilt and Blame. By Susan Chira. (HarperCollins, $25.) From
personal experience, interviews and research, the author, an editor
at The New York Times, makes the case that good motherhood doesn't
require martyrdom. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NOTORIOUS VICTORIA: The Life of Victoria Woodhull, Uncensored.
By Mary Gabriel. (Algonquin, $24.95.) A biography, by a reporter
for Reuters, of the eccentric 19th-century social reformer. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ONE NATION, AFTER ALL. What Middle-Class Americans Really Think
About: God, Country, Family, Racism, Welfare, Immigration,
Homosexuality, Work, the Right, the Left, and Each Other. By Alan
Wolfe. (Viking, $24.95.) A sociologist finds that Americans have
more respect for diversity than they often get credit for. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ONE ROUND RIVER: The Curse of Gold and the Fight for the Big
Blackfoot. By Richard Manning. (Holt, $25.) A furious but
persuasively argued polemic against a vast gold-mining project in
Montana, and also against whoever wants gold. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OSCAR WILDE'S LAST STAND: Decadence, Conspiracy, and the Most
Outrageous Trial of the Century. By Philip Hoare. (Arcade, $25.95.)
How a ``Salome'' production in 1918 London provoked a circus of
ruling-class paranoia, ignorance and fear. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OTHER POWERS: The Age of Suffrage, Spiritualism, and the
Scandalous Victoria Woodhull. By Barbara Goldsmith. (Knopf, $30.) A
historian's account of the fabulous Presidential candidate,
clairvoyant, stockbroker, publisher, free lover and jailbird. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE OTHER SIDE OF THE RIVER: A Story of Two Towns, a Death, and
America's Dilemma. By Alex Kotlowitz. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday,
$24.95.) A Wall Street Journal reporter's historically placed
investigation of a black teen-ager's death in Michigan scours up a
cloud of facts and concludes in painful ambiguity. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OUTSIDE PASSAGE: A Memoir of an Alaskan Childhood. By Julia
Scully. (Random House, $23.) Life with a mother present and absent,
in San Francisco, an orphanage, Alaska, recalled in a quiet
rhetoric with a forgiving moral imagination. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PAINTING BY NUMBERS: Komar and Melamid's Scientific Guide to
Art. Edited by JoAnn Wypijewski. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $50.)
The results, after digestion by the archconceptualists Vitaly Komar
and Alexander Melamid, of opinion polling about what people like.
No sane reader can fail to be embarrassed! &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PARADISE LOST: California's Experience, America's Future. By
Peter Schrag. (New Press, $25.) An angry, persuasive assault, by an
experienced journalist, on rule by voter initiative and the
shrinking financial straitjacket in which California now
struggles. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PILLAR OF FIRE: America in the King Years, 1963-65. By Taylor
Branch. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $30.) The second volume of a projected
trilogy that began with ``Parting the Waters'' continues the story
of Martin Luther King Jr., a man who, the author concludes, was
truly an epic hero. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PLANET OF THE BLIND. By Stephen Kuusisto. (Dial, $22.95.) A
gripping and literary narrative of unusual metaphorical extension
and authority, in which the author is able to include the reader in
his coming to terms with blindness. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART FIVE (1,000 WORDS). FINAL LIST OF NONFICTION
RECOMMENDATIONS _ PART SIX (1,300 WORDS) _ FOLLOWS, AS WELL AS PART
SEVEN: MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New York Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (To publish any part of the list, it must be purchased _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; Human Watch Rights team. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (NONFICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE LAST PATRICIAN: Bobby Kennedy and the End of American
Aristocracy. By Michael Knox Beran. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) A
lively, audacious argument that Robert F. Kennedy in his last years
had become what we would now call conservative. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LAUGHING MATTERS: On Writing ``M*A*S*H,'' ``Tootsie,'' ``Oh,
God!'' and a Few Other Funny Things. By Larry Gelbart. (Random
House, $24.) The comic master of television, Broadway and the
movies gives a characteristically eccentric -- and funny -- account
of his career. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LETTERS OF HEINRICH AND THOMAS MANN, 1900-1949. Edited by Hans
Wysling. (University of California, $50.) Correspondence between
two brothers, both novelists, one major, one minor. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A LEXICON OF TERROR: Argentina and the Legacies of Torture. By
Marguerite Feitlowitz. (Oxford University, $30.) A well-researched,
intimate, perceptive portrait of an Argentina still struggling with
the crime of the ``dirty war'' that ended nearly 20 years ago. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LIFE: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life
on Earth. By Richard Fortey. (Knopf, $30.) A popular, scholarly,
entertaining survey that brings the reader up to date on several
paleontological controversies. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LONG LIFE. By Nigel Nicolson. (Putnam, $29.95.) A casual,
confiding memoir by an 80-year-old man who is always excellent
company and has known the world and everyone in it in his career as
soldier, politician, publisher, squire and offspring of Harold
Nicolson and Vita Sackville-West. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   MADE POSSIBLE BY . . . : The Death of Public Broadcasting in the
United States. By James Ledbetter. (Verso, $25.) A vigorous if
ideologically biased argument that public television serves a
valuable function in our cultural life and should be protected from
political pressure. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MAN WHO ATE EVERYTHING: And Other Gastronomic Feats,
Disputes, and Pleasurable Pursuits. By Jeffrey Steingarten. (Knopf,
$27.50.) Round-the-world adventures from the outside in by Vogue's
food critic, who insists, in the face of all purse-mouthed dissent,
that food is good for us. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A MARITIME ALBUM: 100 Photographs and Their Stories. By John
Szarkowski and Richard Benson. (Mariners' Museum/Yale University,
$39.95.) Not a book of maritime history but a book of splendid
photographs that fire memory and imagination about the relationship
of humanity to its centuries of traffic with the sea. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   MARTIN HEIDEGGER: Between Good and Evil. By Rudiger Safranski.
(Harvard University, $35.) An evenhanded biography of a paradox: a
great and influential philosopher who was also a Nazi. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MEADOWLANDS: Wilderness Adventures at the Edge of a City. By
Robert Sullivan. (Scribner, $23.) Cool, alert ecological excursions
into the abused yet still beautiful and interesting terrain of the
New Jersey Meadowlands. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MEANING OF IT ALL: Thoughts of a Citizen Scientist. By
Richard P. Feynman. (Helix/Addison-Wesley, $22.) From the great
physicist's archives, three delightful lectures on science, society
and our precious freedom of ignorance. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   M. F. K. FISHER: A Life in Letters. Correspondence 1929-1991.
Selected and compiled by Norah K. Barr, Marsha Moran and Patrick
Moran. (Counterpoint, $35.) Fisher's quirky, finely controlled
voice is as much in evidence in her correspondence as in her wildly
admired writing on matters gastronomic. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A MOTHER'S PLACE: Taking the Debate About Working Mothers Beyond
Guilt and Blame. By Susan Chira. (HarperCollins, $25.) From
personal experience, interviews and research, the author, an editor
at The New York Times, makes the case that good motherhood doesn't
require martyrdom. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NOTORIOUS VICTORIA: The Life of Victoria Woodhull, Uncensored.
By Mary Gabriel. (Algonquin, $24.95.) A biography, by a reporter
for Reuters, of the eccentric 19th-century social reformer. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ONE NATION, AFTER ALL. What Middle-Class Americans Really Think
About: God, Country, Family, Racism, Welfare, Immigration,
Homosexuality, Work, the Right, the Left, and Each Other. By Alan
Wolfe. (Viking, $24.95.) A sociologist finds that Americans have
more respect for diversity than they often get credit for. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ONE ROUND RIVER: The Curse of Gold and the Fight for the Big
Blackfoot. By Richard Manning. (Holt, $25.) A furious but
persuasively argued polemic against a vast gold-mining project in
Montana, and also against whoever wants gold. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OSCAR WILDE'S LAST STAND: Decadence, Conspiracy, and the Most
Outrageous Trial of the Century. By Philip Hoare. (Arcade, $25.95.)
How a ``Salome'' production in 1918 London provoked a circus of
ruling-class paranoia, ignorance and fear. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OTHER POWERS: The Age of Suffrage, Spiritualism, and the
Scandalous Victoria Woodhull. By Barbara Goldsmith. (Knopf, $30.) A
historian's account of the fabulous Presidential candidate,
clairvoyant, stockbroker, publisher, free lover and jailbird. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE OTHER SIDE OF THE RIVER: A Story of Two Towns, a Death, and
America's Dilemma. By Alex Kotlowitz. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday,
$24.95.) A Wall Street Journal reporter's historically placed
investigation of a black teen-ager's death in Michigan scours up a
cloud of facts and concludes in painful ambiguity. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OUTSIDE PASSAGE: A Memoir of an Alaskan Childhood. By Julia
Scully. (Random House, $23.) Life with a mother present and absent,
in San Francisco, an orphanage, Alaska, recalled in a quiet
rhetoric with a forgiving moral imagination. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PAINTING BY NUMBERS: Komar and Melamid's Scientific Guide to
Art. Edited by JoAnn Wypijewski. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $50.)
The results, after digestion by the archconceptualists Vitaly Komar
and Alexander Melamid, of opinion polling about what people like.
No sane reader can fail to be embarrassed! &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PARADISE LOST: California's Experience, America's Future. By
Peter Schrag. (New Press, $25.) An angry, persuasive assault, by an
experienced journalist, on rule by voter initiative and the
shrinking financial straitjacket in which California now
struggles. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PILLAR OF FIRE: America in the King Years, 1963-65. By Taylor
Branch. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $30.) The second volume of a projected
trilogy that began with ``Parting the Waters'' continues the story
of Martin Luther King Jr., a man who, the author concludes, was
truly an epic hero. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PLANET OF THE BLIND. By Stephen Kuusisto. (Dial, $22.95.) A
gripping and literary narrative of unusual metaphorical extension
and authority, in which the author is able to include the reader in
his coming to terms with blindness. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART FIVE (1,000 WORDS). FINAL LIST OF NONFICTION
RECOMMENDATIONS _ PART SIX (1,300 WORDS) _ FOLLOWS, AS WELL AS PART
SEVEN: MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0013 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:56 ',
			header: '
A4154 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BBN--Astros-Tigers-HN     06-11 0864
',
			slug: ' BC-BBN--Astros-Tigers-HNS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; By JOSEPH DUARTE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
DETROIT _ At this rate, Carl Everett may never want to go home.

   He's hitting balls to every point on the map.

   ``He's been hitting everywhere,'' Astros manager Larry Dierker
said after Wednesday's 10-3 romp past Detroit. ``He's not only
hitting well; he's hitting everything right where they are not.
Even when he doesn't hit well, it still seems like he gets a hit a
lot of the time.''

   Everett went 4-for-5 with three RBIs and Pete Schourek pitched
seven solid innings, holding the Tigers hitless until the fifth, as
the Astros extended their winning streak to five games by routing
the Tigers.

   The Astros completed their first series sweep since taking a
two-game set from the Florida Marlins on May 11-12 and earned their
first interleague sweep ever.

   Just like he has on the road all season, Everett found a comfort
zone at Tiger Stadium, hitting .571 (8-for-14) with seven RBIs in
three games. Then again, where isn't Everett hitting? The veteran
outfielder is hitting a National League-best .476 (39-for-82) on
the road with five home runs and 22 RBIs.

   ``Getting consistent at-bats is always going to help a player,
and so far it has helped me a lot,'' Everett said. ``Any time you
know you are going to be up there at the plate every day, you're
going to get into a groove, become more patient and not be as
jumpy.''

   Since moving into the lineup full time when rookie center
fielder Richard Hidalgo suffered a shoulder separation May 29,
Everett is 17-for-40 with 10 RBIs in 11 games.

   Everett, acquired in a trade with the New York Mets in December,
said he has never experienced a streak like his current one. He is
a career .248 hitter.

   ``This is the first year I've really had a chance to play every
day, and I'm just thankful for that chance,'' said Everett, who
raised his batting average 15 points to .351.

   The Astros didn't need a ninth-inning rally this night, as they
had in the previous two games in Detroit. If major-league baseball
had a mercy rule, the Tigers would have been begging for it when
they found themselves behind 10-0 after four horrendous innings.

   Through four, the Astros had assaulted two Detroit pitchers and
the Tigers had not yet gotten a man to first base.

   Once again, the Astros proved to be Frank Castillo's biggest
nemesis. Castillo, a former Cub, was gone before he had recorded an
out in the third inning. He was charged with allowing five runs _
on just two hits.

   He walked two and hit two batters to fall to 3-8 lifetime
against the Astros. Castillo (2-5), who has lost four straight, has
an 11.29 ERA.

   Schourek was the complete opposite.

   After losing four of his last five starts, Schourek (3-4)
retired the first 12 batters he faced before Tony Clark and Damion
Easley hit consecutive singles to begin the fifth inning. Schourek,
who matched his season high by working seven innings, has allowed
only two earned runs in his last 14 innings.

   Detroit got only two balls out of the infield in the first four
innings.

   ``This is kind of a good team to pitch against and a tough team
to pitch against,'' said Schourek. ``They're up there taking their
hacks, and they're going to put the ball in play. I was fortunate
to keep the ball down early and get some quick ground balls so I
could get a feel of what kind of stuff I had.

   ``From the last start, the breaks have started going my way. I'm
getting more comfortable with my mechanics and location of my
pitches. At the same time, I'm gaining a lot of confidence.''

   A 10-run cushion has a tendency to do that.

   Already ahead 2-0, the Astros unleashed their fury with five
runs in the third inning. Castillo hit Ricky Gutierrez in the ribs,
then followed with consecutive walks to Craig Biggio and Bill
Spiers before being relieved by A.J. Sager.

   Sager surrendered an RBI groundout to Derek Bell before
intentionally walking Jeff Bagwell.

   Moises Alou, who contributed his 14th home run an inning later
and had three RBIs, walked to force in another run before Everett
drilled a two-run double to left-center. Tony Eusebio's RBI single
put the Astros ahead 7-0.

   The Astros continued their assault in the fourth, using Biggio's
leadoff double and Bell's sacrifice fly to hike the count to 8-0.

   Then, Bagwell walked and Alou hit a shot into the upper deck in
right field for his second home run in as many nights.

   Dierker said, ``It was a great series for us. The two
come-from-behind wins rescued us when we thought we were going to
lose. This was much easier.''

   Bobby Higginson, who also tripled, broke up Schourek's shutout
bid in the seventh with an RBI single that scored Joe Randa. The
Tigers scored in the eighth on Joe Oliver's home run off Bob
Scanlan and reached Trever Miller for another run in the ninth.

   The Tigers have lost nine of 11 to fall 15 games below .500 at
23-38.

   The Astros, who moved two games ahead of Chicago in the NL
Central, open a four-game series with Cincinnati on Friday.
',
			body: '

  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
Everett, Astros beat stripes off Tigers

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; By JOSEPH DUARTE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
DETROIT _ At this rate, Carl Everett may never want to go home.

   He's hitting balls to every point on the map.

   ``He's been hitting everywhere,'' Astros manager Larry Dierker
said after Wednesday's 10-3 romp past Detroit. ``He's not only
hitting well; he's hitting everything right where they are not.
Even when he doesn't hit well, it still seems like he gets a hit a
lot of the time.''

   Everett went 4-for-5 with three RBIs and Pete Schourek pitched
seven solid innings, holding the Tigers hitless until the fifth, as
the Astros extended their winning streak to five games by routing
the Tigers.

   The Astros completed their first series sweep since taking a
two-game set from the Florida Marlins on May 11-12 and earned their
first interleague sweep ever.

   Just like he has on the road all season, Everett found a comfort
zone at Tiger Stadium, hitting .571 (8-for-14) with seven RBIs in
three games. Then again, where isn't Everett hitting? The veteran
outfielder is hitting a National League-best .476 (39-for-82) on
the road with five home runs and 22 RBIs.

   ``Getting consistent at-bats is always going to help a player,
and so far it has helped me a lot,'' Everett said. ``Any time you
know you are going to be up there at the plate every day, you're
going to get into a groove, become more patient and not be as
jumpy.''

   Since moving into the lineup full time when rookie center
fielder Richard Hidalgo suffered a shoulder separation May 29,
Everett is 17-for-40 with 10 RBIs in 11 games.

   Everett, acquired in a trade with the New York Mets in December,
said he has never experienced a streak like his current one. He is
a career .248 hitter.

   ``This is the first year I've really had a chance to play every
day, and I'm just thankful for that chance,'' said Everett, who
raised his batting average 15 points to .351.

   The Astros didn't need a ninth-inning rally this night, as they
had in the previous two games in Detroit. If major-league baseball
had a mercy rule, the Tigers would have been begging for it when
they found themselves behind 10-0 after four horrendous innings.

   Through four, the Astros had assaulted two Detroit pitchers and
the Tigers had not yet gotten a man to first base.

   Once again, the Astros proved to be Frank Castillo's biggest
nemesis. Castillo, a former Cub, was gone before he had recorded an
out in the third inning. He was charged with allowing five runs _
on just two hits.

   He walked two and hit two batters to fall to 3-8 lifetime
against the Astros. Castillo (2-5), who has lost four straight, has
an 11.29 ERA.

   Schourek was the complete opposite.

   After losing four of his last five starts, Schourek (3-4)
retired the first 12 batters he faced before Tony Clark and Damion
Easley hit consecutive singles to begin the fifth inning. Schourek,
who matched his season high by working seven innings, has allowed
only two earned runs in his last 14 innings.

   Detroit got only two balls out of the infield in the first four
innings.

   ``This is kind of a good team to pitch against and a tough team
to pitch against,'' said Schourek. ``They're up there taking their
hacks, and they're going to put the ball in play. I was fortunate
to keep the ball down early and get some quick ground balls so I
could get a feel of what kind of stuff I had.

   ``From the last start, the breaks have started going my way. I'm
getting more comfortable with my mechanics and location of my
pitches. At the same time, I'm gaining a lot of confidence.''

   A 10-run cushion has a tendency to do that.

   Already ahead 2-0, the Astros unleashed their fury with five
runs in the third inning. Castillo hit Ricky Gutierrez in the ribs,
then followed with consecutive walks to Craig Biggio and Bill
Spiers before being relieved by A.J. Sager.

   Sager surrendered an RBI groundout to Derek Bell before
intentionally walking Jeff Bagwell.

   Moises Alou, who contributed his 14th home run an inning later
and had three RBIs, walked to force in another run before Everett
drilled a two-run double to left-center. Tony Eusebio's RBI single
put the Astros ahead 7-0.

   The Astros continued their assault in the fourth, using Biggio's
leadoff double and Bell's sacrifice fly to hike the count to 8-0.

   Then, Bagwell walked and Alou hit a shot into the upper deck in
right field for his second home run in as many nights.

   Dierker said, ``It was a great series for us. The two
come-from-behind wins rescued us when we thought we were going to
lose. This was much easier.''

   Bobby Higginson, who also tripled, broke up Schourek's shutout
bid in the seventh with an RBI single that scored Joe Randa. The
Tigers scored in the eighth on Joe Oliver's home run off Bob
Scanlan and reached Trever Miller for another run in the ninth.

   The Tigers have lost nine of 11 to fall 15 games below .500 at
23-38.

   The Astros, who moved two games ahead of Chicago in the NL
Central, open a four-game series with Cincinnati on Friday.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0014 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:58 ',
			header: '
A4156 &Cx1f; tab-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 1734
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part6of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; terms with blindess. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (NONFICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PLEASURE WARS. The Bourgeois Experience: Victoria to Freud.
Volume 5. By Peter Gay. (Norton, $29.95.) The final volume
(concerning art and the avant-garde) of an immense, imaginative,
tireless study of the much-abused class that invented everything
liberal intellectuals cherish about modern civilization. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A PRAYER FOR THE CITY. By Buzz Bissinger. (Random House,
$25.95.) A remarkable mayor's successful struggle to keep
Philadelphia alive, and his prayerful effort to reshape the city
for viability in the uncertain future, observed by a shrewd
reporter with extraordinary access. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE QUAKERS: Money and Morals. By James Walvin. (John
Murray/Trafalgar Square, $45.) An examination, centered on the
commercial world of Victorian Britain, of the tiny denomination
that rose to immense wealth and respectability once its members
abandoned the noisy prophetic radicalism of their 17th-century
founders. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE RAPE OF NANKING: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II. By
Iris Chang. (Basic Books, $25.) A harrowing account of the
monstrous massacre perpetrated by Japanese troops in 1937, an event
now rarely mentioned, for different reasons, in China and Japan
alike. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   RED-TAILS IN LOVE: A Wildlife Drama in Central Park. By Marie
Winn. (Pantheon, $24.) An affectionate account of a hawk's eventual
success at raising a family in Manhattan and of the bird-watchers
who rapturously observe his struggles. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   REMAKING EDEN: Cloning and Beyond in a Brave New World. By Lee
M. Silver. (Avon, $25.) Realistic, informed speculation by a
geneticist and teacher of bioethics who finds the American polity
so constructed that government can do little to control whatever
potential parents desire and can afford; he's not at all sure
that's bad, either. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SCORPION TONGUES: Gossip, Celebrity, and American Politics. By
Gail Collins. (Morrow, $25.) A breezy, timely history of political
gossip, with an epilogue about the matter of Monica Lewinsky, by an
editorial writer for The New York Times. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SLAVES IN THE FAMILY. By Edward Ball. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux,
$30.) Through travel, interviews and documents, Ball, whose
forebears owned thousands of slaves, grapples with his own sense of
accountability for slavery and its consequences in this extended
family chronicle. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SONG FOR THE BLUE OCEAN: Encounters Along the World's Coasts and
Beneath the Seas. By Carl Safina. (John Macrae/Holt, $30.) An
engrossing, illuminating, depressing journey, with a research
ecologist, to the dwindling populations of wild edible creatures in
the sea. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SPANISH INQUISITION: A Historical Revision. By Henry Kamen.
(Yale University, $35.) The author finds that the Inquisition
little resembled the omnipotent, torture-crazed blight imagined by
19th-century mythology. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TAKING WING: Archaeopteryx and the Evolution of Bird Flight. By
Pat Shipman. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $25.) The bird-and-dinosaur issue,
lucidly handled by a writer who is able to understand and convey
how paleontologists think. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A TANGLED WEB: The Making of Foreign Policy in the Nixon
Presidency. By William Bundy. (Hill &AMP; Wang, $35.) A fair-minded and
dispassionate assessment that gives Nixon higher marks for
shrewdness and manipulation than for statesmanship. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TECUMSEH: A Life. By John Sugden. (John Macrae/Holt, $34.95.) A
detailed, scrupulous account of the great leader who envisioned a
pan-Indian alliance against the whites but came, inevitably, to
grief in the War of 1812. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TENDER AT THE BONE: Growing Up at the Table. By Ruth Reichl.
(Random House, $23.) The riotously amusing memoir, frankly somewhat
embroidered, of a woman for whom a life of eating, waitressing and
cooking prepared her for her current job as restaurant critic of
this newspaper. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE TIME OF OUR TIME. By Norman Mailer. (Random House, $39.50.)
A large anthology of his own work in the 50th year of ``The Naked
and the Dead'' and the 75th of himself; a veritable social history
of postwar America as Mailer (so often correctly) saw it and
sometimes made it. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TITAN: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr. By Ron Chernow.
(Random House, $30.) A large-scale, sustained narrative portrait of
the founding father, free of visible ideological predispositions. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TRICKY DICK AND THE PINK LADY: Richard Nixon vs. Helen Gahagan
Douglas -- Sexual Politics and the Red Scare, 1950. By Greg
Mitchell. (Random House, $25.) An account of the Senate race that
previewed the redbaiting that would mark the 1950's. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TROUBLE IN MIND: Black Southerners in the Age of Jim Crow. By
Leon F. Litwack. (Knopf, $35.) A heartbreaking portrayal of
segregation, disfranchisement and sheer meanness between
Reconstruction and World War I. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TRUMAN CAPOTE. By George Plimpton. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday,
$35.) An oral biography of the man whose literary gifts were
rivaled only by his talent for self-promotion, this account takes
Capote from his Southern boyhood to the New York literary whirl,
and serves up dish that often reveals as much about the speaker as
the subject. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TURNAROUND: How America's Top Cop Reversed the Crime Epidemic.
By William Bratton with Peter Knobler. (Random House, $25.) Mayor
Rudolph Giuliani's first Police Commissioner, apparently dismissed
for shining too brightly in the news, gives his version of things. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TWILIGHT ON THE LINE: Underworlds and Politics at the
U.S.-Mexican Border. By Sebastian Rotella. (Norton, $25.) A vivid
study of immigration, crime and graft at a border pressurized by
Federal agents' successful interdiction of the drug highway through
Florida. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TWINS: And What They Tell Us About Who We Are. By Lawrence
Wright. (Wiley, $22.95.) A lucid if not totally convincing
introduction to behavioral genetics, based chiefly on studies of
identical twins raised separately. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   UNAFRAID OF THE DARK: A Memoir. By Rosemary L. Bray. (Random
House, $24.) The life so far of a black woman who grew up on
welfare (a system whose detractors she upbraids), went to Yale and
became a successful journalist at this book review and many other
places. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   UNAUTHORIZED PORTRAITS. By Edward Sorel. (Knopf, $40.) A
personal anthology by a cartoonist who is a foremost practitioner
of what he calls ``comic portraits that are deliberately
hurtful.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   VICTOR HUGO. By Graham Robb. (Norton, $39.95.) A readable, fully
documented, mercifully short (considering) biography of France's
huge romantic poet, novelist and personal mythmaker. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   VIOLET: The Life and Loves of Violet Gordon Woodhouse. By
Jessica Douglas-Home. (Harvill/ Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $28.) With
one lawful husband and three faithful surrogates, this remarkable
Englishwoman lived one of the oddest happy lives of the Edwardian
and Georgian eras. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE WARRIOR'S HONOR: Ethnic War and the Modern Conscience. By
Michael Ignatieff. (Metropolitan/Holt, $24.95.) In five uneasy
essays, a commentator and moralist examines the near-impotence of
the immensely powerful West to amend pointless savagery in less
favored states. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WE'LL CALL YOU IF WE NEED YOU: Experiences of Women Working
Construction. By Susan Eisenberg. (ILR Press/Cornell University,
$25.) The author, a master electrician and poet, thoughtfully
introduces and celebrates the people and the measures that led to
the modest success women have achieved in the building trades. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WICKERBY: An Urban Pastoral. By Charles Siebert. (Crown, $21.)
The poles of this memoir are Siebert's native Brooklyn and the
landscape of southern Quebec, and its enterprise is the reunion
through reflection of the city with nature. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WILD THOUGHTS FROM WILD PLACES. By David Quammen. (Scribner,
$24.) A collection of magazine articles that allows the reader to
share Quammen's love of nature. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE WORLD ACCORDING TO PETER DRUCKER. By Jack Beatty. (Free
Press, $25.) Taking Drucker seriously as an intellectual, Beatty
finds him ambivalent about capitalism, disappointed in management's
social irresponsibility, and engaged with the thought of
Kierkegaard. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE WORLD WITHIN WAR: America's Combat Experience in World War
II. By Gerald F. Linderman. (Free Press, $26.) The experience and
the remarkable effectiveness of ordinary Americans called to arms,
reflectively told and based on memoirs and war fiction. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ``YOU AIN'T HEARD NOTHIN' YET.'' The American Talking Film:
History &AMP; Memory, 1927-1949. By Andrew Sarris. (Oxford University,
$35.) Notes and essays covering films examined by as significant
and missionary a critic as we've got. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART SIX (1,300 WORDS). FINAL LIST, PART SEVEN _
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES _ FOLLOWS.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New York Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (To publish any part of the list, it must be purchased _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; terms with blindess. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (NONFICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PLEASURE WARS. The Bourgeois Experience: Victoria to Freud.
Volume 5. By Peter Gay. (Norton, $29.95.) The final volume
(concerning art and the avant-garde) of an immense, imaginative,
tireless study of the much-abused class that invented everything
liberal intellectuals cherish about modern civilization. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A PRAYER FOR THE CITY. By Buzz Bissinger. (Random House,
$25.95.) A remarkable mayor's successful struggle to keep
Philadelphia alive, and his prayerful effort to reshape the city
for viability in the uncertain future, observed by a shrewd
reporter with extraordinary access. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE QUAKERS: Money and Morals. By James Walvin. (John
Murray/Trafalgar Square, $45.) An examination, centered on the
commercial world of Victorian Britain, of the tiny denomination
that rose to immense wealth and respectability once its members
abandoned the noisy prophetic radicalism of their 17th-century
founders. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE RAPE OF NANKING: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II. By
Iris Chang. (Basic Books, $25.) A harrowing account of the
monstrous massacre perpetrated by Japanese troops in 1937, an event
now rarely mentioned, for different reasons, in China and Japan
alike. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   RED-TAILS IN LOVE: A Wildlife Drama in Central Park. By Marie
Winn. (Pantheon, $24.) An affectionate account of a hawk's eventual
success at raising a family in Manhattan and of the bird-watchers
who rapturously observe his struggles. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   REMAKING EDEN: Cloning and Beyond in a Brave New World. By Lee
M. Silver. (Avon, $25.) Realistic, informed speculation by a
geneticist and teacher of bioethics who finds the American polity
so constructed that government can do little to control whatever
potential parents desire and can afford; he's not at all sure
that's bad, either. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SCORPION TONGUES: Gossip, Celebrity, and American Politics. By
Gail Collins. (Morrow, $25.) A breezy, timely history of political
gossip, with an epilogue about the matter of Monica Lewinsky, by an
editorial writer for The New York Times. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SLAVES IN THE FAMILY. By Edward Ball. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux,
$30.) Through travel, interviews and documents, Ball, whose
forebears owned thousands of slaves, grapples with his own sense of
accountability for slavery and its consequences in this extended
family chronicle. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SONG FOR THE BLUE OCEAN: Encounters Along the World's Coasts and
Beneath the Seas. By Carl Safina. (John Macrae/Holt, $30.) An
engrossing, illuminating, depressing journey, with a research
ecologist, to the dwindling populations of wild edible creatures in
the sea. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SPANISH INQUISITION: A Historical Revision. By Henry Kamen.
(Yale University, $35.) The author finds that the Inquisition
little resembled the omnipotent, torture-crazed blight imagined by
19th-century mythology. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TAKING WING: Archaeopteryx and the Evolution of Bird Flight. By
Pat Shipman. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $25.) The bird-and-dinosaur issue,
lucidly handled by a writer who is able to understand and convey
how paleontologists think. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A TANGLED WEB: The Making of Foreign Policy in the Nixon
Presidency. By William Bundy. (Hill &AMP; Wang, $35.) A fair-minded and
dispassionate assessment that gives Nixon higher marks for
shrewdness and manipulation than for statesmanship. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TECUMSEH: A Life. By John Sugden. (John Macrae/Holt, $34.95.) A
detailed, scrupulous account of the great leader who envisioned a
pan-Indian alliance against the whites but came, inevitably, to
grief in the War of 1812. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TENDER AT THE BONE: Growing Up at the Table. By Ruth Reichl.
(Random House, $23.) The riotously amusing memoir, frankly somewhat
embroidered, of a woman for whom a life of eating, waitressing and
cooking prepared her for her current job as restaurant critic of
this newspaper. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE TIME OF OUR TIME. By Norman Mailer. (Random House, $39.50.)
A large anthology of his own work in the 50th year of ``The Naked
and the Dead'' and the 75th of himself; a veritable social history
of postwar America as Mailer (so often correctly) saw it and
sometimes made it. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TITAN: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr. By Ron Chernow.
(Random House, $30.) A large-scale, sustained narrative portrait of
the founding father, free of visible ideological predispositions. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TRICKY DICK AND THE PINK LADY: Richard Nixon vs. Helen Gahagan
Douglas -- Sexual Politics and the Red Scare, 1950. By Greg
Mitchell. (Random House, $25.) An account of the Senate race that
previewed the redbaiting that would mark the 1950's. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TROUBLE IN MIND: Black Southerners in the Age of Jim Crow. By
Leon F. Litwack. (Knopf, $35.) A heartbreaking portrayal of
segregation, disfranchisement and sheer meanness between
Reconstruction and World War I. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TRUMAN CAPOTE. By George Plimpton. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday,
$35.) An oral biography of the man whose literary gifts were
rivaled only by his talent for self-promotion, this account takes
Capote from his Southern boyhood to the New York literary whirl,
and serves up dish that often reveals as much about the speaker as
the subject. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TURNAROUND: How America's Top Cop Reversed the Crime Epidemic.
By William Bratton with Peter Knobler. (Random House, $25.) Mayor
Rudolph Giuliani's first Police Commissioner, apparently dismissed
for shining too brightly in the news, gives his version of things. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TWILIGHT ON THE LINE: Underworlds and Politics at the
U.S.-Mexican Border. By Sebastian Rotella. (Norton, $25.) A vivid
study of immigration, crime and graft at a border pressurized by
Federal agents' successful interdiction of the drug highway through
Florida. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TWINS: And What They Tell Us About Who We Are. By Lawrence
Wright. (Wiley, $22.95.) A lucid if not totally convincing
introduction to behavioral genetics, based chiefly on studies of
identical twins raised separately. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   UNAFRAID OF THE DARK: A Memoir. By Rosemary L. Bray. (Random
House, $24.) The life so far of a black woman who grew up on
welfare (a system whose detractors she upbraids), went to Yale and
became a successful journalist at this book review and many other
places. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   UNAUTHORIZED PORTRAITS. By Edward Sorel. (Knopf, $40.) A
personal anthology by a cartoonist who is a foremost practitioner
of what he calls ``comic portraits that are deliberately
hurtful.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   VICTOR HUGO. By Graham Robb. (Norton, $39.95.) A readable, fully
documented, mercifully short (considering) biography of France's
huge romantic poet, novelist and personal mythmaker. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   VIOLET: The Life and Loves of Violet Gordon Woodhouse. By
Jessica Douglas-Home. (Harvill/ Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $28.) With
one lawful husband and three faithful surrogates, this remarkable
Englishwoman lived one of the oddest happy lives of the Edwardian
and Georgian eras. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE WARRIOR'S HONOR: Ethnic War and the Modern Conscience. By
Michael Ignatieff. (Metropolitan/Holt, $24.95.) In five uneasy
essays, a commentator and moralist examines the near-impotence of
the immensely powerful West to amend pointless savagery in less
favored states. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WE'LL CALL YOU IF WE NEED YOU: Experiences of Women Working
Construction. By Susan Eisenberg. (ILR Press/Cornell University,
$25.) The author, a master electrician and poet, thoughtfully
introduces and celebrates the people and the measures that led to
the modest success women have achieved in the building trades. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WICKERBY: An Urban Pastoral. By Charles Siebert. (Crown, $21.)
The poles of this memoir are Siebert's native Brooklyn and the
landscape of southern Quebec, and its enterprise is the reunion
through reflection of the city with nature. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WILD THOUGHTS FROM WILD PLACES. By David Quammen. (Scribner,
$24.) A collection of magazine articles that allows the reader to
share Quammen's love of nature. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE WORLD ACCORDING TO PETER DRUCKER. By Jack Beatty. (Free
Press, $25.) Taking Drucker seriously as an intellectual, Beatty
finds him ambivalent about capitalism, disappointed in management's
social irresponsibility, and engaged with the thought of
Kierkegaard. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE WORLD WITHIN WAR: America's Combat Experience in World War
II. By Gerald F. Linderman. (Free Press, $26.) The experience and
the remarkable effectiveness of ordinary Americans called to arms,
reflectively told and based on memoirs and war fiction. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ``YOU AIN'T HEARD NOTHIN' YET.'' The American Talking Film:
History &AMP; Memory, 1927-1949. By Andrew Sarris. (Oxford University,
$35.) Notes and essays covering films examined by as significant
and missionary a critic as we've got. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART SIX (1,300 WORDS). FINAL LIST, PART SEVEN _
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES _ FOLLOWS.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0015 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 00:59 ',
			header: '
A4157 &Cx1f; tab-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 0827
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part7of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; as we've got. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; MYSTERIES &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE BALLAD OF FRANKIE SILVER. By Sharyn McCrumb. (Dutton,
$23.95.) A case of 19th-century frontier justice and the modern-day
execution of a killer are interwoven in this Appalachian mountain
tale of love, loyalty and murder. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BLIND DESCENT. By Nevada Barr. (Putnam, $22.95.) On a
hair-raising mission into a ``monster man-eating cave'' in Carlsbad
Caverns, a National Park Service ranger discovers that a member of
her rescue team is a killer. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HIT MAN. By Lawrence Block. (Morrow, $22.) A killer named Keller
reacts to a midcareer crisis by becoming involved in the lives of
his intended targets, in a series of murderous adventures that are
both funny and full of rue. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MOOR. By Laurie R. King. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) The cheeky
premise of this artful historical mystery -- that Sherlock Holmes
has taken a young, brainy wife -- sends the sleuthing pair to
Dartmoor to investigate sightings of a huge, ghostly beast. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NIGHT DOGS. By Kent Anderson. (Bantam, $22.95.) A street cop in
Portland, Ore., works himself into a hellish state of mind as he
pounds his wretched beat in 1975, reliving his own nightmares as a
Green Beret in Vietnam. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ``N'' IS FOR NOOSE. By Sue Grafton. (Holt, $25.) The cocky
shamus Kinsey Millhone is ignored, insulted and otherwise put in
her place by the surly residents of a rural California town, all of
them determined to keep their skeletons in the closet. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WINGS OF FIRE. By Ian Rutledge. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) The wild
scenery and dark legends of the Cornish countryside provide the
moody atmosphere for a Scotland Yard detective's investigation into
the suicide of a beloved poet. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; SCIENCE FICTION &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CIRCUIT OF HEAVEN. By Dennis Danvers. (Eos/Avon, $14.) ``Romeo
and Juliet in Cyberspace'' might be the subtitle of this moving
love story, in which technological barriers threaten to separate an
appealing pair of ``star-cross'd lovers'' as painfully as the more
traditional barriers of class and clan. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FLESH AND GOLD. By Phyllis Gotlieb. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $23.95.)
Set mostly in a far-future brothel that caters to the desires of
``15 kinds of humanity,'' this labyrinthine novel by a
distinguished Canadian poet takes an almost perverse pleasure in
affirming the universality of human lust and greed. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PACIFIC EMPIRE. By G. Miki Hayden. (JoNa Books, Box 336,
Bedford, Ind. 47421, paper, $12.95.) A ``what if'' novel in which
the Japanese defeat the United States in World War II. By focusing
on individuals instead of geopolitics, Hayden immerses the reader
in a world that feels no less real for being counterfactual. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PHOENIX CAFE. By Gwyneth Jones. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $24.95.)
Suffering is the bond that brings humans and aliens together in
this deeply affecting novel, which concludes a trilogy that began
with ``White Queen.'' Instead of neatly wrapping up all loose ends,
Jones invites the reader to accept the mystery at the core of all
intimate relationships. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TO SAY NOTHING OF THE DOG. By Connie Willis. (Spectra/Bantam,
$23.95.) This delightful addition to Willis's series of time-travel
tales (which includes the poignant ``Fire Watch'' and the tragic
``Doomsday Book'') is a cheery romp through Victorian England on
the trail of a monstrosity called the ``bishop's bird stump.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company. &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New York Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (To publish any part of the list, it must be purchased _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; as we've got. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; MYSTERIES &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE BALLAD OF FRANKIE SILVER. By Sharyn McCrumb. (Dutton,
$23.95.) A case of 19th-century frontier justice and the modern-day
execution of a killer are interwoven in this Appalachian mountain
tale of love, loyalty and murder. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BLIND DESCENT. By Nevada Barr. (Putnam, $22.95.) On a
hair-raising mission into a ``monster man-eating cave'' in Carlsbad
Caverns, a National Park Service ranger discovers that a member of
her rescue team is a killer. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HIT MAN. By Lawrence Block. (Morrow, $22.) A killer named Keller
reacts to a midcareer crisis by becoming involved in the lives of
his intended targets, in a series of murderous adventures that are
both funny and full of rue. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MOOR. By Laurie R. King. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) The cheeky
premise of this artful historical mystery -- that Sherlock Holmes
has taken a young, brainy wife -- sends the sleuthing pair to
Dartmoor to investigate sightings of a huge, ghostly beast. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NIGHT DOGS. By Kent Anderson. (Bantam, $22.95.) A street cop in
Portland, Ore., works himself into a hellish state of mind as he
pounds his wretched beat in 1975, reliving his own nightmares as a
Green Beret in Vietnam. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ``N'' IS FOR NOOSE. By Sue Grafton. (Holt, $25.) The cocky
shamus Kinsey Millhone is ignored, insulted and otherwise put in
her place by the surly residents of a rural California town, all of
them determined to keep their skeletons in the closet. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WINGS OF FIRE. By Ian Rutledge. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) The wild
scenery and dark legends of the Cornish countryside provide the
moody atmosphere for a Scotland Yard detective's investigation into
the suicide of a beloved poet. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; SCIENCE FICTION &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CIRCUIT OF HEAVEN. By Dennis Danvers. (Eos/Avon, $14.) ``Romeo
and Juliet in Cyberspace'' might be the subtitle of this moving
love story, in which technological barriers threaten to separate an
appealing pair of ``star-cross'd lovers'' as painfully as the more
traditional barriers of class and clan. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FLESH AND GOLD. By Phyllis Gotlieb. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $23.95.)
Set mostly in a far-future brothel that caters to the desires of
``15 kinds of humanity,'' this labyrinthine novel by a
distinguished Canadian poet takes an almost perverse pleasure in
affirming the universality of human lust and greed. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PACIFIC EMPIRE. By G. Miki Hayden. (JoNa Books, Box 336,
Bedford, Ind. 47421, paper, $12.95.) A ``what if'' novel in which
the Japanese defeat the United States in World War II. By focusing
on individuals instead of geopolitics, Hayden immerses the reader
in a world that feels no less real for being counterfactual. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PHOENIX CAFE. By Gwyneth Jones. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $24.95.)
Suffering is the bond that brings humans and aliens together in
this deeply affecting novel, which concludes a trilogy that began
with ``White Queen.'' Instead of neatly wrapping up all loose ends,
Jones invites the reader to accept the mystery at the core of all
intimate relationships. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TO SAY NOTHING OF THE DOG. By Connie Willis. (Spectra/Bantam,
$23.95.) This delightful addition to Willis's series of time-travel
tales (which includes the poignant ``Fire Watch'' and the tragic
``Doomsday Book'') is a cheery romp through Victorian England on
the trail of a monstrosity called the ``bishop's bird stump.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company. &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0016 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 01:04 ',
			header: '
A4159 &Cx1f; taf-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TOBACCO-MARRIAGE-REPU     06-11 0576
',
			slug: ' BC-TOBACCO-MARRIAGE-REPUBS-1STLD-NYT ',
			headline: '
SUPPORT GAINS FOR ENDING MARRIAGE TAX PENALTY 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Republican efforts to cut taxes for some married
couples gained momentum Wednesday as many Democrats, including
President Clinton, expressed support for some version of the idea.

   Anti-smoking legislation, the subject of desultory debate on the
Senate floor for several weeks, suddenly became the vehicle for
bipartisan efforts to address a longstanding quirk in the tax code.
Because of this quirk, some married couples with two incomes pay
higher taxes than they would if they filed separate tax returns as
individuals.

   Republicans led by Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas assailed the
``marriage penalty,'' saying it undermined the institution of the
family. Social conservatives have pressed Congress to promote
``family values'' by reducing the marriage penalty, and Speaker
Newt Gingrich promised conservatives last month that he would do
so.

   Under Gramm's proposal, married couples with annual incomes of
$50,000 a year or less could eventually receive a special tax
deductions of $3,300 a year, regardless of whether they itemized
such deductions as state taxes and mortgage interest. This would
reduce taxes by about $500 a year for a family with income of
$25,000.

   Republicans say they have found a popular political issue in
their campaign against the marriage penalty, the very name of which
suggests injustice. And some Democrats agree.

   Gramm said that the tobacco bill, by raising cigarette prices,
would impose ``a bone-crushing tax on moderate-income Americans.''
Under his proposal, Gramm said, ``one-third of the money we are
collecting in higher tobacco taxes would be given back to working
families.''

   In its current form, he said, the tax code rewards many couples
who ``live in sin'' rather than getting married.

   The new tax deduction proposed by Gramm would be available to
married couples regardless of whether they had actually incurred
the marriage penalty.

   Though the fact is hardly mentioned on Capitol Hill, more
couples save money by filing joint returns than lose money. This is
especially true when one spouse has much higher earnings than the
other. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that 25 million
such couples receive a ``marriage bonus,'' while 21 million incur a
penalty.

   Sen. Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader,
denounced Gramm's proposal, saying it was too costly. Daschle
offered a Democratic alternative, intended to provide tax relief to
those who experience a marriage penalty, but not to those who
receive a tax bonus as a result of being married.

   Sen. Kent Conrad, a Democrat who is a former Tax Commissioner of
North Dakota, said: ``We ought to give those who actually
experience the marriage penalty the help they really need to
overcome it. It does not make sense to give the help to those who
benefit from being married in the same way you help those who are
being hurt.''

   Barry Toiv, a White House spokesman, said that reducing the
marriage penalty had not been ``a high priority for the
administration,'' but that President Clinton now supported efforts
to cut takes for some married couples as a way to secure passage of
anti-smoking legislation. &QL;
',
			body: '


 
(EDS: Subs to change wording in 4th graf to `annual' sted `gross
adjusted' income. No pickup.)  (See also TOBACCO-MARRIAGE) 
(ja) 
 By ROBERT PEAR   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Republican efforts to cut taxes for some married
couples gained momentum Wednesday as many Democrats, including
President Clinton, expressed support for some version of the idea.

   Anti-smoking legislation, the subject of desultory debate on the
Senate floor for several weeks, suddenly became the vehicle for
bipartisan efforts to address a longstanding quirk in the tax code.
Because of this quirk, some married couples with two incomes pay
higher taxes than they would if they filed separate tax returns as
individuals.

   Republicans led by Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas assailed the
``marriage penalty,'' saying it undermined the institution of the
family. Social conservatives have pressed Congress to promote
``family values'' by reducing the marriage penalty, and Speaker
Newt Gingrich promised conservatives last month that he would do
so.

   Under Gramm's proposal, married couples with annual incomes of
$50,000 a year or less could eventually receive a special tax
deductions of $3,300 a year, regardless of whether they itemized
such deductions as state taxes and mortgage interest. This would
reduce taxes by about $500 a year for a family with income of
$25,000.

   Republicans say they have found a popular political issue in
their campaign against the marriage penalty, the very name of which
suggests injustice. And some Democrats agree.

   Gramm said that the tobacco bill, by raising cigarette prices,
would impose ``a bone-crushing tax on moderate-income Americans.''
Under his proposal, Gramm said, ``one-third of the money we are
collecting in higher tobacco taxes would be given back to working
families.''

   In its current form, he said, the tax code rewards many couples
who ``live in sin'' rather than getting married.

   The new tax deduction proposed by Gramm would be available to
married couples regardless of whether they had actually incurred
the marriage penalty.

   Though the fact is hardly mentioned on Capitol Hill, more
couples save money by filing joint returns than lose money. This is
especially true when one spouse has much higher earnings than the
other. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that 25 million
such couples receive a ``marriage bonus,'' while 21 million incur a
penalty.

   Sen. Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader,
denounced Gramm's proposal, saying it was too costly. Daschle
offered a Democratic alternative, intended to provide tax relief to
those who experience a marriage penalty, but not to those who
receive a tax bonus as a result of being married.

   Sen. Kent Conrad, a Democrat who is a former Tax Commissioner of
North Dakota, said: ``We ought to give those who actually
experience the marriage penalty the help they really need to
overcome it. It does not make sense to give the help to those who
benefit from being married in the same way you help those who are
being hurt.''

   Barry Toiv, a White House spokesman, said that reducing the
marriage penalty had not been ``a high priority for the
administration,'' but that President Clinton now supported efforts
to cut takes for some married couples as a way to secure passage of
anti-smoking legislation. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0017 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 01:17 ',
			header: '
A4167 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BOB-HOPE-KNIGHTED-LAD     06-11 0575
',
			slug: ' BC-BOB-HOPE-KNIGHTED-LADN ',
			headline: '
BOB HOPE, WIFE RECEIVE PAPAL TITLES
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES -- In the serenity of a small chapel their donations
helped to build, legendary entertainer Bob Hope and his wife were
awarded papal knighthoods by Cardinal Roger Mahony.

   In a private ceremony Wednesday at St. Charles Borromeo Church
in North Hollywood, Hope was invested as a knight commander with
the star designation and his wife, Dolores, as a dame with star in
the Order of St. Gregory the Great.

   ``I think it's a great honor,'' said daughter Linda Hope, who
was joined by her son, Andrew Lande, and her brother Kelly Hope at
the ceremony. ``I think good deeds and good work transcend any
particular religious group.''

   Hope, a non-Catholic, and his wife, who is Catholic, were to
have been invested in January along with news magnate Rupert
Murdoch, actor Ricardo Montalban and about 60 others. The Hopes
were unable to attend because it conflicted with his annual Desert
Classic golf tournament in Palm Springs, said his publicist, Ward
Grant.

   Rev. Gregory Coiro, spokesman for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese
of Los Angeles, said Pope John Paul II bestows papal knighthoods on
those of unblemished character who have promoted the interests of
humanity, the Catholic Church and the Holy See.

   Hope, 95, and his wife, 89, were blessed with many great talents
and have shared their many gifts with all those around them, Mahony
said during the ceremony. He praised the suburban Toluca Lake
couple for extending their good will locally and worldwide.

   ``You just name it, and they've always been willing to step
forward and share their gifts, their lives, with everyone,'' Mahony
said.

   From altars, shrines and even the very chapel in which they
received their papal honors, the couple's contributions have
influenced church life, Mahony said.

   The simple ceremony was held in Our Lady's Chapel, where Hope
and his wife sat before a marble altar.

   The couple stood as Mahony tied a medal around Hope's neck,
pinned a medal on his wife, placed a red stole on each of them and
handed them scrolls.

   About 25 close friends, gathered in the chapel, burst into
applause as Mahony congratulated the couple. In good spirits, Hope
flashed his familiar smile at the group but did not speak.

   Longtime friend Jack Hennessy of Toluca Lake said the honor was
extra special because it was given to both Dolores and Bob Hope.

   ``It was so well-deserved,'' Hennessy said. ``She's been so
active in the church, and from the charitable end as well. We were
delighted that she was honored as well as Bob.''

   Dolores Hope is one of only four women in the world who have
been named dames of St. Gregory with the star designation. Her
husband is one of seven men in the Archdiocese of Los Angeles to
receive comparable honor, Grant said. Hope, originally a member of
the Church of England, attends Catholic services with his wife.

   Just last month, Hope, who was born in England, was invested as
knight commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire
in recognition of his contributions to movies, music and the
entertainment of armed forces. He has received more than 1,500
awards and citations for his humanitarian and professional work,
including the Medal of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal.

   XXX
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
BY YVETTE CABRERA  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES -- In the serenity of a small chapel their donations
helped to build, legendary entertainer Bob Hope and his wife were
awarded papal knighthoods by Cardinal Roger Mahony.

   In a private ceremony Wednesday at St. Charles Borromeo Church
in North Hollywood, Hope was invested as a knight commander with
the star designation and his wife, Dolores, as a dame with star in
the Order of St. Gregory the Great.

   ``I think it's a great honor,'' said daughter Linda Hope, who
was joined by her son, Andrew Lande, and her brother Kelly Hope at
the ceremony. ``I think good deeds and good work transcend any
particular religious group.''

   Hope, a non-Catholic, and his wife, who is Catholic, were to
have been invested in January along with news magnate Rupert
Murdoch, actor Ricardo Montalban and about 60 others. The Hopes
were unable to attend because it conflicted with his annual Desert
Classic golf tournament in Palm Springs, said his publicist, Ward
Grant.

   Rev. Gregory Coiro, spokesman for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese
of Los Angeles, said Pope John Paul II bestows papal knighthoods on
those of unblemished character who have promoted the interests of
humanity, the Catholic Church and the Holy See.

   Hope, 95, and his wife, 89, were blessed with many great talents
and have shared their many gifts with all those around them, Mahony
said during the ceremony. He praised the suburban Toluca Lake
couple for extending their good will locally and worldwide.

   ``You just name it, and they've always been willing to step
forward and share their gifts, their lives, with everyone,'' Mahony
said.

   From altars, shrines and even the very chapel in which they
received their papal honors, the couple's contributions have
influenced church life, Mahony said.

   The simple ceremony was held in Our Lady's Chapel, where Hope
and his wife sat before a marble altar.

   The couple stood as Mahony tied a medal around Hope's neck,
pinned a medal on his wife, placed a red stole on each of them and
handed them scrolls.

   About 25 close friends, gathered in the chapel, burst into
applause as Mahony congratulated the couple. In good spirits, Hope
flashed his familiar smile at the group but did not speak.

   Longtime friend Jack Hennessy of Toluca Lake said the honor was
extra special because it was given to both Dolores and Bob Hope.

   ``It was so well-deserved,'' Hennessy said. ``She's been so
active in the church, and from the charitable end as well. We were
delighted that she was honored as well as Bob.''

   Dolores Hope is one of only four women in the world who have
been named dames of St. Gregory with the star designation. Her
husband is one of seven men in the Archdiocese of Los Angeles to
receive comparable honor, Grant said. Hope, originally a member of
the Church of England, attends Catholic services with his wife.

   Just last month, Hope, who was born in England, was invested as
knight commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire
in recognition of his contributions to movies, music and the
entertainment of armed forces. He has received more than 1,500
awards and citations for his humanitarian and professional work,
including the Medal of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal.

   XXX
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0018 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 01:19 ',
			header: '
A4171 &Cx1f; tth-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SOC-COLUMN-VECSEY-SPI     06-11 0783
',
			slug: ' BC-SOC-COLUMN-VECSEY-SPI ',
			headline: '
GOOD MORNING, PLEASE PASS THE WORLD CUP 
',
			trailer: '
   At 8:30 a.m. Wednesday, the Michael Jordan of soccer took center
stage in front of a planetary audience of billions.

   You can only wonder, with the World Cup so humongous, if the
real Michael Jordan isn't jealous, since Sir Air's little NBA
Finals now has the feel of a family clambake.

   Anyway, the TV was on Wednesday morning as the fabulous Ronaldo
led Brazil to action against Scotland.

   World Cup '98 was rolling.

   I was in my pajamas.

   It's not every day you get the chance to wake up to the sight of
the Tartan Army, but that is the rich international flavor of World
Cup.

   Men in kilts. French police on the Champs Elysees throwing tear
gas on drunken World Cup revelers. Swedish soccer officials
accusing the Italians of rigging the international soccer governing
body (FIFA) elections.

   Then came the Brazilians; the defending champions, the artistes
who turn a soccer pitch into a canvas.

   Cafu, Bebeto, Giovanni, Leonardo, Denilson and Rivaldo.

   Isn't there one Brazilian soccer star named Jim or Morty or
Billy?

   Such colorful names on those Brazilians, it's easy mistake them
for a Torrefazzione coffee sampler.

   But, who's complaining?

   &UR; el.5l &LR;

   What a fantastic way to start the day, especially after the
Brazilians scored in the fourth minute and then the scrappy Scots
made it exciting by pulling even on a much-deserved penalty kick.

   All this action (who said soccer's boring?) before the first cup
of coffee had cooled.

   Now, to call this sporting extravaganza ``Breakfast at World
Cup,'' I think you have to have Dick Enberg and Mr. Snappy Pants,
Bud Collins.

   They're the guys who, in the dewey dawns of all those
Wimbledons, wax poetic on a variety of topics: strawberries and
cream, the Duchess of Windsor and the art of a proper curtsy.

   So, no, maybe ``Breakfast at World Cup'' won't do, even if the
early-morning soccer matches now coming to you live from France
suggest a copycat theme is in order.

   Besides, it's not NBC that's bringing us World Cup '98. It's
ESPN.

   The sports cable station has made the noble decision to air all
64 matches of this 33-day foot fetish.

   That's a lot of soccer, but not to worry. ESPN still has plenty
of air time left for the Putt-Putt Championship and The World's
Strongest Man Contest.

   It's just that in between, the cameras will be rolling in
France, where Ronaldo and his Brazilian samba-dancing teammates
will try to win an unprecedented fifth World Cup.

   Now, just to be safe, does everyone remember World Cup?

   Ole, ole, ole, ole. Ole. Ole?

   Pele? Baggio? Maradona? Beckenbaur? Kyle Rote Jr.?

   &UR; el.5l &LR;

   Hah, caught you. Rote Jr. was a Tampa Bay Rowdy.

   We Americans have a short memory on the topic of soccer, so
let's refresh:

   World Cup '94 was held right here on U.S. soil.

   Alexi Lalas, Eric Wynalda and Tony Meola led the gutsy American
lads in the brave fight to ignite soccer passion in the homeland.

   U.S. Soccer bankrolled profits to start the still-struggling
Major League Soccer.

   Four years later, our soccer fortunes aren't much changed. This
year's U.S. World Cup squad is more experienced, which is another
way of saying it is also old.

   The U.S. will play coach Steve Sampson's controversial 3-6-1
formation, using only one true striker on the attack. What this
means, basically, is that when the Americans take on the formidable
Germans in their opener Monday, U.S. goalkeeper Kasey Keller better
wear a helmet and army boots.

   Yes, maybe it is best that we leave soccer to the rest of the
world. They do seem to do it better, even the French, who thought a
good World Cup party had to include striking Air France pilots.
Quel jokesters!

   But if Wednesday's action-packed opener is any indication, then
World Cup '98 will be worth getting up for, worth tuning into.

   ``Yes, indeed, that's one tough Scotsman!'' ESPN's color
commentator Seamus Malin shouted in delight Wednesday as the Scots
mounted pressure on the snazzy Brazilians.

   ``John Durie just took a header for the mother country! They
call him `Jukebox Durie' back home in Scotland. You have to wonder
what song's running through his head right now.''

   That was the scene on my TV. Bodies were falling. The ball was
careening end to end.

   On the world's grand soccer stage, the attacking, underdog Scots
were like Braveheart's men going up against the King's army.

   That was an Oscar-winner, wasn't it?

   Talk about a fulfilling breakfast.
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients.)  
 By LAURA VECSEY  
 c.1998 Seattle Post-Intelligencer  

',
			paragraphs: '
   At 8:30 a.m. Wednesday, the Michael Jordan of soccer took center
stage in front of a planetary audience of billions.

   You can only wonder, with the World Cup so humongous, if the
real Michael Jordan isn't jealous, since Sir Air's little NBA
Finals now has the feel of a family clambake.

   Anyway, the TV was on Wednesday morning as the fabulous Ronaldo
led Brazil to action against Scotland.

   World Cup '98 was rolling.

   I was in my pajamas.

   It's not every day you get the chance to wake up to the sight of
the Tartan Army, but that is the rich international flavor of World
Cup.

   Men in kilts. French police on the Champs Elysees throwing tear
gas on drunken World Cup revelers. Swedish soccer officials
accusing the Italians of rigging the international soccer governing
body (FIFA) elections.

   Then came the Brazilians; the defending champions, the artistes
who turn a soccer pitch into a canvas.

   Cafu, Bebeto, Giovanni, Leonardo, Denilson and Rivaldo.

   Isn't there one Brazilian soccer star named Jim or Morty or
Billy?

   Such colorful names on those Brazilians, it's easy mistake them
for a Torrefazzione coffee sampler.

   But, who's complaining?

   &UR; el.5l &LR;

   What a fantastic way to start the day, especially after the
Brazilians scored in the fourth minute and then the scrappy Scots
made it exciting by pulling even on a much-deserved penalty kick.

   All this action (who said soccer's boring?) before the first cup
of coffee had cooled.

   Now, to call this sporting extravaganza ``Breakfast at World
Cup,'' I think you have to have Dick Enberg and Mr. Snappy Pants,
Bud Collins.

   They're the guys who, in the dewey dawns of all those
Wimbledons, wax poetic on a variety of topics: strawberries and
cream, the Duchess of Windsor and the art of a proper curtsy.

   So, no, maybe ``Breakfast at World Cup'' won't do, even if the
early-morning soccer matches now coming to you live from France
suggest a copycat theme is in order.

   Besides, it's not NBC that's bringing us World Cup '98. It's
ESPN.

   The sports cable station has made the noble decision to air all
64 matches of this 33-day foot fetish.

   That's a lot of soccer, but not to worry. ESPN still has plenty
of air time left for the Putt-Putt Championship and The World's
Strongest Man Contest.

   It's just that in between, the cameras will be rolling in
France, where Ronaldo and his Brazilian samba-dancing teammates
will try to win an unprecedented fifth World Cup.

   Now, just to be safe, does everyone remember World Cup?

   Ole, ole, ole, ole. Ole. Ole?

   Pele? Baggio? Maradona? Beckenbaur? Kyle Rote Jr.?

   &UR; el.5l &LR;

   Hah, caught you. Rote Jr. was a Tampa Bay Rowdy.

   We Americans have a short memory on the topic of soccer, so
let's refresh:

   World Cup '94 was held right here on U.S. soil.

   Alexi Lalas, Eric Wynalda and Tony Meola led the gutsy American
lads in the brave fight to ignite soccer passion in the homeland.

   U.S. Soccer bankrolled profits to start the still-struggling
Major League Soccer.

   Four years later, our soccer fortunes aren't much changed. This
year's U.S. World Cup squad is more experienced, which is another
way of saying it is also old.

   The U.S. will play coach Steve Sampson's controversial 3-6-1
formation, using only one true striker on the attack. What this
means, basically, is that when the Americans take on the formidable
Germans in their opener Monday, U.S. goalkeeper Kasey Keller better
wear a helmet and army boots.

   Yes, maybe it is best that we leave soccer to the rest of the
world. They do seem to do it better, even the French, who thought a
good World Cup party had to include striking Air France pilots.
Quel jokesters!

   But if Wednesday's action-packed opener is any indication, then
World Cup '98 will be worth getting up for, worth tuning into.

   ``Yes, indeed, that's one tough Scotsman!'' ESPN's color
commentator Seamus Malin shouted in delight Wednesday as the Scots
mounted pressure on the snazzy Brazilians.

   ``John Durie just took a header for the mother country! They
call him `Jukebox Durie' back home in Scotland. You have to wonder
what song's running through his head right now.''

   That was the scene on my TV. Bodies were falling. The ball was
careening end to end.

   On the world's grand soccer stage, the attacking, underdog Scots
were like Braveheart's men going up against the King's army.

   That was an Oscar-winner, wasn't it?

   Talk about a fulfilling breakfast.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0019 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 01:22 ',
			header: '
A4174 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-INTERNET-MOLESTER-SEN     06-11 0473
',
			slug: ' BC-INTERNET-MOLESTER-SENTENCED-LADN ',
			headline: '
ONLINE MOLESTER GETS 18 MONTHS IN PRISON FOR LURING GIRL ON
INTERNET 
(EDITORS: `VALLLEYGUY' IN LEDE IS CORRECT)
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES -- A financial analyst known online as
``Vallleyguy'' was sentenced to 18 months in federal prison for
using the Internet to lure a 13-year-old girl to a motel room two
years ago, officials said.

   During sentencing Wednesday for Francis John Kufrovich of
suburban Woodland Hills, prosecutors also said three other
youngsters, some from the Los Angeles area, are prepared to testify
about sexual relations with the 43-year-old. Prosecutors declined
to say whether Kufrovich faces charges based on those allegations.

   In addition to 18 months in prison, Kufrovich also was ordered
to undergo three years of supervised release, mental counseling and
biannual lie-detector tests about his contact with minors,
officials said.

   Before the sentencing in U.S. District Court in New Haven,
Conn., Kufrovich apologized tearfully to the Connecticut teen,
saying counseling has helped him to recognize his problem.

   Kufrovich said he had failed to get the mental help he needed.

   The girl, now 16, told Senior U.S. District Judge Ellen Bree
Burns that the incident put her into a deep depression and gave her
anxiety attacks that require medication.

   ``She was a very composed, articulate and intelligent girl from
a caring, intact family, and that's the point,'' said Assistant
U.S. Attorney Gates Garrity-Rokous. ``If it could happen to these
parents and this victim, it could happen to any family.''

   Kufrovich was ordered to pay $25,000 in restitution to the
victim and her family for psychiatric care and counseling,
Garrity-Rokous said.

   Kufrovich's attorney, Richard Anderson of Dallas, could not be
reached for comment Wednesday.

   This was one of the first cases in the country brought under the
1996 Communications Decency Act, which makes it illegal to use the
Internet to persuade or induce a minor into sex.

   Prosecutors said Kufrovich met the teen-ager in an online chat
room before arranging to meet her in Irving, Texas, where she and
her mother were attending a swim meet in March 1996, Garrity-Rokous
said. Kufrovich checked into the same hotel and invited the girl to
his room, where he tried to molest her, court records said.

   Kufrovich pleaded guilty in March to one felony count each of
communicating interstate to entice a minor to engage in sex and
traveling interstate with the same intent.

   Because Kufrovich had no criminal record, federal sentencing
guidelines called for a sentence of 12 to 21 months, which is
considerably less than the maximum 10-year prison term, the
prosecutor said.

   XXX
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By JESSE HIESTAND  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES -- A financial analyst known online as
``Vallleyguy'' was sentenced to 18 months in federal prison for
using the Internet to lure a 13-year-old girl to a motel room two
years ago, officials said.

   During sentencing Wednesday for Francis John Kufrovich of
suburban Woodland Hills, prosecutors also said three other
youngsters, some from the Los Angeles area, are prepared to testify
about sexual relations with the 43-year-old. Prosecutors declined
to say whether Kufrovich faces charges based on those allegations.

   In addition to 18 months in prison, Kufrovich also was ordered
to undergo three years of supervised release, mental counseling and
biannual lie-detector tests about his contact with minors,
officials said.

   Before the sentencing in U.S. District Court in New Haven,
Conn., Kufrovich apologized tearfully to the Connecticut teen,
saying counseling has helped him to recognize his problem.

   Kufrovich said he had failed to get the mental help he needed.

   The girl, now 16, told Senior U.S. District Judge Ellen Bree
Burns that the incident put her into a deep depression and gave her
anxiety attacks that require medication.

   ``She was a very composed, articulate and intelligent girl from
a caring, intact family, and that's the point,'' said Assistant
U.S. Attorney Gates Garrity-Rokous. ``If it could happen to these
parents and this victim, it could happen to any family.''

   Kufrovich was ordered to pay $25,000 in restitution to the
victim and her family for psychiatric care and counseling,
Garrity-Rokous said.

   Kufrovich's attorney, Richard Anderson of Dallas, could not be
reached for comment Wednesday.

   This was one of the first cases in the country brought under the
1996 Communications Decency Act, which makes it illegal to use the
Internet to persuade or induce a minor into sex.

   Prosecutors said Kufrovich met the teen-ager in an online chat
room before arranging to meet her in Irving, Texas, where she and
her mother were attending a swim meet in March 1996, Garrity-Rokous
said. Kufrovich checked into the same hotel and invited the girl to
his room, where he tried to molest her, court records said.

   Kufrovich pleaded guilty in March to one felony count each of
communicating interstate to entice a minor to engage in sex and
traveling interstate with the same intent.

   Because Kufrovich had no criminal record, federal sentencing
guidelines called for a sentence of 12 to 21 months, which is
considerably less than the maximum 10-year prison term, the
prosecutor said.

   XXX
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0020 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 01:24 ',
			header: '
A4176 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FRANBLINEBURY-HNS &LR;      06-11 0927
',
			slug: ' BC-FRAN ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   `Rodzilla' strikes again, only this time &QL; 
controversial Bull takes Jazz to the mat

   &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
CHICAGO _ Fear and loathing at the United Center. It looks like
Brother Dennis Rodman is on a mission.

   A year ago during the NBA Finals, Rodman insulted the Mormon
Church. This time around, his scorn is directed at the Utah Jazz.

   ``They can't stop me,'' he said. ``I'm too mobile and agile.''

   Not to mention hostile. Which is, of course, what you might
expect from a guy who spent his Monday night in Detroit at a
professional wrestling event, where he picked up a folding chair
and clobbered fellow bad thespian ``Diamond'' Dallas Page.

   Then, he turned right around and whacked Karl Malone and the
Jazz with everything but the kitchen sink.

   Call it Wednesday Nitro.

   And now, unless there's a comet strike or the sudden arrival of
Armageddon, the Bulls have lit the fuse on their sixth championship
celebration.

   Thanks, again, to the tattooed lady. Or man. Or bride. Or groom.
Or alien creature from an unknown planet.

   All we know for sure is that he's as nasty as he wants to be.
And that is bad, bad, bad news for the Jazz.

   After driving the horde of assembled media to distraction with
his antics over the previous two days, Rodman was the single
biggest force that drove the Jazz to the edge of elimination.

   ``Dennis likes to create a situation where he backs himself into
a corner and has to produce,'' said Bulls coach Phil Jackson. ``You
really have to hand it to him.''

   Actually, no, you don't. Because Rodman, when he isn't pouting
over some real or imagined slight from his teammates or the
coaching staff, when he is not merely trying to drum up more
attention for himself, when he simply has it in his head that he's
ready to go out onto the court and play, can grab a game by the
throat and squeeze out a victory.

   Those were most certainly Rodman's fingerprints on the necks of
the Jazz in general and Malone in particular on a night when the
Chicago offense lurched and stalled like a worn-out car.

   ``Dennis Rodman made the difference,'' said Utah coach Jerry
Sloan. ``He made the plays.''

   He made the big plays. He seemed to make every play down the
stretch when it looked like the Jazz had a chance to sneak up and
steal a win.

   There were the 14 rebounds, which is something you've come to
expect from Rodman. But there were also six free throws out of
eight attempts, which is something you never expect.

   On Monday night inside the wrestling ring, Rodman frolicked with
his buddy Hulk Hogan and made his debut as the half-cartoon
character ``Rodzilla.''

   Then 48 hours later, the fun and games were put away and the
green-haired monster was devouring the Jazz. Once again, Rodman
came off the bench to cool down the Mailman as if he were a fire
hose aimed at a hibachi grill. Malone finished the game with 21
points but took just three shots in the entire fourth quarter and
did not hit his only field goal of the final period until there
were just 9.1 seconds left and the game had been decided.

   Rodman is weird. He is controversial. He is intentionally loud
and distracting. But he is effective, as deadly as a python who
wraps up his victims and squeezes out the life.

   Scottie Pippen scored 28 points and grabbed nine rebounds but
missed a jumper with three minutes left and the game tied at 72.
But there was Rodzilla, coming up out of the crowd to grab the
rebound. He was fouled by Shandon Anderson and made two free throws
that put the Bulls in front for good.

   There was Michael Jordan with 34 points and eight rebounds. But
there was the Jazz with a final desperate chance in the last 43
seconds. John Stockton drove through the lane and missed a reverse
layup, and it was Rodman who tipped the ball back out one last
time, getting fouled by Malone in the process. When he hit both
free throws again, the Bulls were up by four and the Jazz had blown
its last note.

   From mocking his teammates by skipping out on practice to making
a mockery of the Jazz with his play, he is not so much a walking
contradiction as a petulant modern-day celebrity who could get by
without any of the excess baggage but revels in the attention.

   ``I don't think (going to the wrestling event) was a mistake,''
Rodman said. ``I think I owe my team an apology, but the media and
the TV people were making more out of it than it is. I didn't do
that to embarrass my team or to get the spotlight. I can do that
any time.''

   ``You go figure him out,'' Jordan said. ``One day he's
wrestling, and the next day he's playing defense. I guess he likes
all of that. He seems to thrive on it.''

   The NBA hierarchy likes to look at him as the bad boy, but those
are the same marketing folks who have allowed Rodman to turn
himself into a live action figure, someone tailor-made for the
world of wrestling.

   Jordan and Pippen have scored all the points, and Rodman has
grabbed all the headlines, while the Jazz has simply deflated like
a tire with a slow leak. The Jazz can't score. The Jazz can't stop
the Bulls from scoring when they need to. Most of all, the Jazz
can't figure out a way to handle Rodman.

   But who can?

   The TV tabloids are already lining up. Will Rodzilla be at
practice today?

   ``That's the $10,000 question,'' Jackson said. ``He'll probably
be there with bells on.''

   Ho-hum. With Rodman, it takes a dress to make a real story.
',
			body: '

 BLINEBURY-HNS  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
FranBlinebury

',
			paragraphs: '
   `Rodzilla' strikes again, only this time &QL; 
controversial Bull takes Jazz to the mat

   &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
CHICAGO _ Fear and loathing at the United Center. It looks like
Brother Dennis Rodman is on a mission.

   A year ago during the NBA Finals, Rodman insulted the Mormon
Church. This time around, his scorn is directed at the Utah Jazz.

   ``They can't stop me,'' he said. ``I'm too mobile and agile.''

   Not to mention hostile. Which is, of course, what you might
expect from a guy who spent his Monday night in Detroit at a
professional wrestling event, where he picked up a folding chair
and clobbered fellow bad thespian ``Diamond'' Dallas Page.

   Then, he turned right around and whacked Karl Malone and the
Jazz with everything but the kitchen sink.

   Call it Wednesday Nitro.

   And now, unless there's a comet strike or the sudden arrival of
Armageddon, the Bulls have lit the fuse on their sixth championship
celebration.

   Thanks, again, to the tattooed lady. Or man. Or bride. Or groom.
Or alien creature from an unknown planet.

   All we know for sure is that he's as nasty as he wants to be.
And that is bad, bad, bad news for the Jazz.

   After driving the horde of assembled media to distraction with
his antics over the previous two days, Rodman was the single
biggest force that drove the Jazz to the edge of elimination.

   ``Dennis likes to create a situation where he backs himself into
a corner and has to produce,'' said Bulls coach Phil Jackson. ``You
really have to hand it to him.''

   Actually, no, you don't. Because Rodman, when he isn't pouting
over some real or imagined slight from his teammates or the
coaching staff, when he is not merely trying to drum up more
attention for himself, when he simply has it in his head that he's
ready to go out onto the court and play, can grab a game by the
throat and squeeze out a victory.

   Those were most certainly Rodman's fingerprints on the necks of
the Jazz in general and Malone in particular on a night when the
Chicago offense lurched and stalled like a worn-out car.

   ``Dennis Rodman made the difference,'' said Utah coach Jerry
Sloan. ``He made the plays.''

   He made the big plays. He seemed to make every play down the
stretch when it looked like the Jazz had a chance to sneak up and
steal a win.

   There were the 14 rebounds, which is something you've come to
expect from Rodman. But there were also six free throws out of
eight attempts, which is something you never expect.

   On Monday night inside the wrestling ring, Rodman frolicked with
his buddy Hulk Hogan and made his debut as the half-cartoon
character ``Rodzilla.''

   Then 48 hours later, the fun and games were put away and the
green-haired monster was devouring the Jazz. Once again, Rodman
came off the bench to cool down the Mailman as if he were a fire
hose aimed at a hibachi grill. Malone finished the game with 21
points but took just three shots in the entire fourth quarter and
did not hit his only field goal of the final period until there
were just 9.1 seconds left and the game had been decided.

   Rodman is weird. He is controversial. He is intentionally loud
and distracting. But he is effective, as deadly as a python who
wraps up his victims and squeezes out the life.

   Scottie Pippen scored 28 points and grabbed nine rebounds but
missed a jumper with three minutes left and the game tied at 72.
But there was Rodzilla, coming up out of the crowd to grab the
rebound. He was fouled by Shandon Anderson and made two free throws
that put the Bulls in front for good.

   There was Michael Jordan with 34 points and eight rebounds. But
there was the Jazz with a final desperate chance in the last 43
seconds. John Stockton drove through the lane and missed a reverse
layup, and it was Rodman who tipped the ball back out one last
time, getting fouled by Malone in the process. When he hit both
free throws again, the Bulls were up by four and the Jazz had blown
its last note.

   From mocking his teammates by skipping out on practice to making
a mockery of the Jazz with his play, he is not so much a walking
contradiction as a petulant modern-day celebrity who could get by
without any of the excess baggage but revels in the attention.

   ``I don't think (going to the wrestling event) was a mistake,''
Rodman said. ``I think I owe my team an apology, but the media and
the TV people were making more out of it than it is. I didn't do
that to embarrass my team or to get the spotlight. I can do that
any time.''

   ``You go figure him out,'' Jordan said. ``One day he's
wrestling, and the next day he's playing defense. I guess he likes
all of that. He seems to thrive on it.''

   The NBA hierarchy likes to look at him as the bad boy, but those
are the same marketing folks who have allowed Rodman to turn
himself into a live action figure, someone tailor-made for the
world of wrestling.

   Jordan and Pippen have scored all the points, and Rodman has
grabbed all the headlines, while the Jazz has simply deflated like
a tire with a slow leak. The Jazz can't score. The Jazz can't stop
the Bulls from scoring when they need to. Most of all, the Jazz
can't figure out a way to handle Rodman.

   But who can?

   The TV tabloids are already lining up. Will Rodzilla be at
practice today?

   ``That's the $10,000 question,'' Jackson said. ``He'll probably
be there with bells on.''

   Ho-hum. With Rodman, it takes a dress to make a real story.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0021 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 01:26 ',
			header: '
A4178 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-finalslede-HNS &LR;      06-11 0934
',
			slug: ' BC-finals ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; By MICHAEL MURPHY &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
CHICAGO _ After spending the first half of the week driving
teammates, coaches and the local media crazy, the Bulls' Dennis
Rodman decided it was time to inflict similar torture on the Utah
Jazz on Wednesday night.

   Rodman made headlines in the Windy City, but this time it wasn't
for skipping practice or hitting a wrestler over the head with a
folding metal chair.

   The news this time was Rodman's hitting four straight free
throws in the final three minutes, sparking the Bulls to an 86-82
victory in Game 4 of the NBA Finals before 23,844 fans at the
United Center.

   The victory gave the Bulls an almost insurmountable 3-1 lead in
the best-of-seven series, which they could close out here Friday
for their third straight NBA championship and sixth in eight years.

   Rodman, who had been in the news for skipping Monday's practice
to instead jet to Detroit to participate in a televised wrestling
program, had hit just 55 percent of his free throws during the
regular season and 57 percent in the playoffs.

   But when it mattered most, Rodman knocked down the big shots,
including two with 43.8 seconds left that bumped Chicago's lead to
four points as the Jazz was furiously trying to rally.

   ``It's all about putting your (manhood) on the line and shooting
the basketball,'' said Rodman, who also grabbed a game-high 14
rebounds. ``So I did it. I think it's just because of all the
things that have been happening to me this week.''

   Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen carried most of the offensive
load for the Bulls, finishing with 34 points and 28 points,
respectively.

   But it was Rodman who was the star.

   The four free throws had the same impact as that metal chair
with which the truant Rodman, along with tag-team partner Hulk
Hogan, brained ``Diamond'' Dallas Page before a national audience
on TNT's Monday Nitro program.

   Beyond his free-throw shooting, Rodman's seven offensive
rebounds played a big part in slowing down Utah's running game, and
his superb defense on Karl Malone was maybe the biggest factor in
the victory.

   After delivering 11 first-period points, ``The Mailman'' was
limited to 10 points the rest of the way _ and just two in the
fourth quarter. With Rodman draped all over him, Malone managed to
squeeze off just three field-goal attempts in the final 12 minutes,
making one with 9.1 seconds left and the game out of reach.

   ``The much-maligned Dennis Rodman had a wonderful game for us,''
said Bulls coach Phil Jackson. ``As usual, he digs himself out of a
hole and plays well enough to redeem himself again. And Michael
(Jordan) found a way to score down the stretch when we were really
struggling to find some baskets.''

   Speaking of struggling to find some baskets, here's a note for
the morbidly curious _ Utah scored its 55th point with 38.4 seconds
to play in the third quarter on a free throw by Howard Eisley. The
significance of that? Only the fact the Jazz scored a total of 54
points the last time out, absorbing a 42-point drubbing by the
Bulls in Game 3.

   But the Bulls still won, putting them one victory away from yet
another NBA title and their second three-peat of the decade.

   ``We're confident,'' Jackson said. ``They have to win three in a
row to beat us in this series, and that's very difficult for any
team.''

   One would think so, since no team in the history of the league
has come back from a 3-1 deficit to win the Finals.

   While Rodman was the momentary hero, Jordan kept his legend
going as well. Jordan scored 11 of his points in the fourth period,
including seven in the final 2:14 as he went down in the post and
worked inside.

   ``My rhythm was pretty screwed up tonight,'' said Jordan, who
hit just 12 of his 27 field-goal attempts. ``The only way I could
score was to back down in the post. My mama said there were going
to be days like this. When you're struggling from the perimeter,
you have to find some easy shots.

   ``My fallaway wasn't falling, my jump shots seemed to be off,
and my free throws were totally off (he finished 10-of-15 from the
line). I had no choice but to go in for easy shots and do other
things, like rebound.

   ``Right now we're up 3-1, and we're in control. But it's not
over by any means. We have to come out and play the hardest game of
the year Friday (in Game 5).''

   The Bulls led 68-61 after Luc Longley canned a pair of free
throws with 7:45 left in the game, but the Jazz came back with a
9-1 run, taking a 70-69 lead on a layup by Chris Morris with 5:01
to play.

   Jordan came back with a baseline jumper 20 seconds later to put
the Bulls up again, and Ron Harper followed with a free throw that
gave Chicago a 72-70 lead with 4:05 left. Jeff Hornacek hit a layup
on one of Utah's few fast-break opportunities to tie the game, but
then lightning struck for the Bulls.

   Rodman hit two foul shots to put the Bulls up, and this time it
was for good. Morris hit just one of two free throws on Utah's
ensuing possession, and then Jordan took over, sandwiching a pair
of shots around a Morris dunk to keep the Bulls up 78-75.

   Pippen hit a free throw to bump the lead to four points, but
Hornacek hit a jumper with 1:05 left to pull the Jazz within 79-77.

   That's when Rodman pulled out another miracle _ for him _
draining another two free throws with 43.8 seconds left to put the
Bulls back up by four points.
',
			body: '

 lede-HNS  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
Rodman, Jordan, Pippen bedevil Jazz, 
put Bulls on verge of repeat three-peat

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; By MICHAEL MURPHY &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
CHICAGO _ After spending the first half of the week driving
teammates, coaches and the local media crazy, the Bulls' Dennis
Rodman decided it was time to inflict similar torture on the Utah
Jazz on Wednesday night.

   Rodman made headlines in the Windy City, but this time it wasn't
for skipping practice or hitting a wrestler over the head with a
folding metal chair.

   The news this time was Rodman's hitting four straight free
throws in the final three minutes, sparking the Bulls to an 86-82
victory in Game 4 of the NBA Finals before 23,844 fans at the
United Center.

   The victory gave the Bulls an almost insurmountable 3-1 lead in
the best-of-seven series, which they could close out here Friday
for their third straight NBA championship and sixth in eight years.

   Rodman, who had been in the news for skipping Monday's practice
to instead jet to Detroit to participate in a televised wrestling
program, had hit just 55 percent of his free throws during the
regular season and 57 percent in the playoffs.

   But when it mattered most, Rodman knocked down the big shots,
including two with 43.8 seconds left that bumped Chicago's lead to
four points as the Jazz was furiously trying to rally.

   ``It's all about putting your (manhood) on the line and shooting
the basketball,'' said Rodman, who also grabbed a game-high 14
rebounds. ``So I did it. I think it's just because of all the
things that have been happening to me this week.''

   Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen carried most of the offensive
load for the Bulls, finishing with 34 points and 28 points,
respectively.

   But it was Rodman who was the star.

   The four free throws had the same impact as that metal chair
with which the truant Rodman, along with tag-team partner Hulk
Hogan, brained ``Diamond'' Dallas Page before a national audience
on TNT's Monday Nitro program.

   Beyond his free-throw shooting, Rodman's seven offensive
rebounds played a big part in slowing down Utah's running game, and
his superb defense on Karl Malone was maybe the biggest factor in
the victory.

   After delivering 11 first-period points, ``The Mailman'' was
limited to 10 points the rest of the way _ and just two in the
fourth quarter. With Rodman draped all over him, Malone managed to
squeeze off just three field-goal attempts in the final 12 minutes,
making one with 9.1 seconds left and the game out of reach.

   ``The much-maligned Dennis Rodman had a wonderful game for us,''
said Bulls coach Phil Jackson. ``As usual, he digs himself out of a
hole and plays well enough to redeem himself again. And Michael
(Jordan) found a way to score down the stretch when we were really
struggling to find some baskets.''

   Speaking of struggling to find some baskets, here's a note for
the morbidly curious _ Utah scored its 55th point with 38.4 seconds
to play in the third quarter on a free throw by Howard Eisley. The
significance of that? Only the fact the Jazz scored a total of 54
points the last time out, absorbing a 42-point drubbing by the
Bulls in Game 3.

   But the Bulls still won, putting them one victory away from yet
another NBA title and their second three-peat of the decade.

   ``We're confident,'' Jackson said. ``They have to win three in a
row to beat us in this series, and that's very difficult for any
team.''

   One would think so, since no team in the history of the league
has come back from a 3-1 deficit to win the Finals.

   While Rodman was the momentary hero, Jordan kept his legend
going as well. Jordan scored 11 of his points in the fourth period,
including seven in the final 2:14 as he went down in the post and
worked inside.

   ``My rhythm was pretty screwed up tonight,'' said Jordan, who
hit just 12 of his 27 field-goal attempts. ``The only way I could
score was to back down in the post. My mama said there were going
to be days like this. When you're struggling from the perimeter,
you have to find some easy shots.

   ``My fallaway wasn't falling, my jump shots seemed to be off,
and my free throws were totally off (he finished 10-of-15 from the
line). I had no choice but to go in for easy shots and do other
things, like rebound.

   ``Right now we're up 3-1, and we're in control. But it's not
over by any means. We have to come out and play the hardest game of
the year Friday (in Game 5).''

   The Bulls led 68-61 after Luc Longley canned a pair of free
throws with 7:45 left in the game, but the Jazz came back with a
9-1 run, taking a 70-69 lead on a layup by Chris Morris with 5:01
to play.

   Jordan came back with a baseline jumper 20 seconds later to put
the Bulls up again, and Ron Harper followed with a free throw that
gave Chicago a 72-70 lead with 4:05 left. Jeff Hornacek hit a layup
on one of Utah's few fast-break opportunities to tie the game, but
then lightning struck for the Bulls.

   Rodman hit two foul shots to put the Bulls up, and this time it
was for good. Morris hit just one of two free throws on Utah's
ensuing possession, and then Jordan took over, sandwiching a pair
of shots around a Morris dunk to keep the Bulls up 78-75.

   Pippen hit a free throw to bump the lead to four points, but
Hornacek hit a jumper with 1:05 left to pull the Jazz within 79-77.

   That's when Rodman pulled out another miracle _ for him _
draining another two free throws with 43.8 seconds left to put the
Bulls back up by four points.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0022 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 01:47 ',
			header: '
A4181 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EXOTIC-PETS-LADN     06-11 0228
',
			slug: ' BC-EXOTIC-PETS-LADN ',
			headline: '
EXOTIC PET OWNERS MUST NOTIFY NEIGHBORS, L.A. COUNCIL RULES
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES -- Nearly a year after a suburban West Hills
resident's boa constrictor swallowed a neighbor's Chihuahua, the
Los Angeles City Council voted to require people with permitted
exotic and dangerous snakes and reptiles to notify their neighbors
of the animals' presence.

   Councilman Hal Bernson sought the change in a new permitting
process approved last week by the city Animal Regulation
Commission, saying it was reasonable to let residents know if there
is a potentially dangerous animal on their block.

   ``We're talking about a constrictor capable of inflicting damage
to people or small animals,'' Bernson said Wednesday.

   Animal Regulation Director Sharon Morris said the commission had
decided against the notification requirement because of concern
that it would unnecessarily stir up controversy.

   ``They felt it would set the neighbors up to complain about the
exotic snakes and lizards, and they would try to fight the
permit,'' Morris said.

   In August 1997, a 7-foot-long boa constrictor named Alissss
wandered from its home and devoured a Chihuahua named Babette in
front of the dog's horrified, 74-year-old owner.

   XXX
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By PATRICK McGREEVY  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES -- Nearly a year after a suburban West Hills
resident's boa constrictor swallowed a neighbor's Chihuahua, the
Los Angeles City Council voted to require people with permitted
exotic and dangerous snakes and reptiles to notify their neighbors
of the animals' presence.

   Councilman Hal Bernson sought the change in a new permitting
process approved last week by the city Animal Regulation
Commission, saying it was reasonable to let residents know if there
is a potentially dangerous animal on their block.

   ``We're talking about a constrictor capable of inflicting damage
to people or small animals,'' Bernson said Wednesday.

   Animal Regulation Director Sharon Morris said the commission had
decided against the notification requirement because of concern
that it would unnecessarily stir up controversy.

   ``They felt it would set the neighbors up to complain about the
exotic snakes and lizards, and they would try to fight the
permit,'' Morris said.

   In August 1997, a 7-foot-long boa constrictor named Alissss
wandered from its home and devoured a Chihuahua named Babette in
front of the dog's horrified, 74-year-old owner.

   XXX
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0023 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 01:48 ',
			header: '
A4182 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BBO-DODGERS-LADN     06-11 0685
',
			slug: ' BC-BBO-DODGERS-LADN ',
			headline: '
DODGERS BEAT A'S
',
			trailer: '
   Ismael Valdes, who nearly headed out of town two weeks ago in
the Randy Johnson trade, headed into the seventh inning Wednesday
night with a no-hitter.

   Although he lost it on a two-out single by Matt Stairs, Valdes
pitched the second two-hitter of his career in a 1-0 victory over
the Oakland Athletics in front of 27,494 at Dodger Stadium.

   Valdes, whose inconsistent pitching this season made him
available to Seattle in the much-publicized trade talks, was
brilliant against the A's, striking out a season-high nine batters
and walking just one.

   He matched the best game of his career, Sept. 17, 1995 when he
limited the St. Louis Cardinals to two hits in an 8-0 victory. But
Wednesday's victory also enabled the Dodgers to finally pick up a
game on the red-hot San Francisco Giants in the National League
West.

   The Dodgers' victory, their fourth in five games, puts them 7{
games behind the Giants, whose 11-game winning streak ended with a
4-1 loss to Seattle.

   As well as Valdes (5-7) pitched, there was little margin for
error against Oakland left-hander Kenny Rogers, who limited the
Dodgers to two hits and an unearned run in seven innings.

   The Dodgers scored their only run in the fifth after Juan
Castro, playing second base for injured Eric Young (right thigh),
reached on an error by Rogers and later scored on a single by Raul
Mondesi.

   The A's had chances to tie the game in the eighth and ninth
innings.

   After pinch hitter Mike Macfarlane singled two outs in the
eighth, the A's brought up pinch hitter Kevin Mitchell representing
the go-ahead run. Although Mitchell is hardly the player who won
the National League Most Valuable Player Award in 1989, he still is
dangerous.

   But he tapped back to the mound to end the inning.

   Valdes struck out Rickey Henderson to open the ninth, but Scott
Spiezio hit a low liner to left that glanced off the glove of Roger
Cedeno for a two-base error. Once again, Valdes was in a position
to lose not just the lead, but the game.

   But he got Ben Grieve to line to left, where Cedeno entered the
game the previous inning as a defensive replacement.

   Fittingly, it was Stairs at the plate at the end. Valdes struck
him out to earn his first victory in four starts.

   Valdes was making his 14th start of the season, but just his
fourth at Dodger Stadium.

   Although he hadn't won since May 21, Valdes pitched well during
his past two starts. He pitched into the eighth inning in both
games, a no-decision in the Dodgers' 6-5 loss to Cincinnati on May
and a 4-0 loss last Friday in Seattle last Friday. During that
stretch he allowed six runs in 141/3 innings (3.77 ERA).

   Through the first six innings, shortstop Miguel Tijada was the
Oakland hitter to reach base when he walked to open the third.

   Valdes almost lost his shutout before his no-hitter when he
threw wildly to first trying to pick off Tijada, who raced all the
way to third.

   With the infield playing in, A's catcher A.J. Hinch grounded
sharply to second, but Juan Castro looked Tijada back to third and
threw to first for the out. Valdes then struck out Rogers and
Henderson to end the inning.

   Like Tuesday night, when the Dodgers used three Oakland errors
to win, they scored their run after Rogers misplayed Castor's slow
roller to the mound. Valdes sacrificed Castro to second and one out
later, Mondesi singled for the RBI.

   Rogers, who already has matched his victory total for last
season with the Yankees, settled down.

   Young, who joined the A's last November after two turbulent
seasons in New York, showed why he once pitched a perfect game for
Texas and was considered one of the top left-handers in the
American League.

   He allowed a leadoff single to Charles Johnson in the fifth, but
Castro grounded into a double play. Valdes then hit a sharp one
hopper off Rogers, but Tejada raced in from short and made an
off-balanced throw to first for the out.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By MATT McHALE  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Ismael Valdes, who nearly headed out of town two weeks ago in
the Randy Johnson trade, headed into the seventh inning Wednesday
night with a no-hitter.

   Although he lost it on a two-out single by Matt Stairs, Valdes
pitched the second two-hitter of his career in a 1-0 victory over
the Oakland Athletics in front of 27,494 at Dodger Stadium.

   Valdes, whose inconsistent pitching this season made him
available to Seattle in the much-publicized trade talks, was
brilliant against the A's, striking out a season-high nine batters
and walking just one.

   He matched the best game of his career, Sept. 17, 1995 when he
limited the St. Louis Cardinals to two hits in an 8-0 victory. But
Wednesday's victory also enabled the Dodgers to finally pick up a
game on the red-hot San Francisco Giants in the National League
West.

   The Dodgers' victory, their fourth in five games, puts them 7{
games behind the Giants, whose 11-game winning streak ended with a
4-1 loss to Seattle.

   As well as Valdes (5-7) pitched, there was little margin for
error against Oakland left-hander Kenny Rogers, who limited the
Dodgers to two hits and an unearned run in seven innings.

   The Dodgers scored their only run in the fifth after Juan
Castro, playing second base for injured Eric Young (right thigh),
reached on an error by Rogers and later scored on a single by Raul
Mondesi.

   The A's had chances to tie the game in the eighth and ninth
innings.

   After pinch hitter Mike Macfarlane singled two outs in the
eighth, the A's brought up pinch hitter Kevin Mitchell representing
the go-ahead run. Although Mitchell is hardly the player who won
the National League Most Valuable Player Award in 1989, he still is
dangerous.

   But he tapped back to the mound to end the inning.

   Valdes struck out Rickey Henderson to open the ninth, but Scott
Spiezio hit a low liner to left that glanced off the glove of Roger
Cedeno for a two-base error. Once again, Valdes was in a position
to lose not just the lead, but the game.

   But he got Ben Grieve to line to left, where Cedeno entered the
game the previous inning as a defensive replacement.

   Fittingly, it was Stairs at the plate at the end. Valdes struck
him out to earn his first victory in four starts.

   Valdes was making his 14th start of the season, but just his
fourth at Dodger Stadium.

   Although he hadn't won since May 21, Valdes pitched well during
his past two starts. He pitched into the eighth inning in both
games, a no-decision in the Dodgers' 6-5 loss to Cincinnati on May
and a 4-0 loss last Friday in Seattle last Friday. During that
stretch he allowed six runs in 141/3 innings (3.77 ERA).

   Through the first six innings, shortstop Miguel Tijada was the
Oakland hitter to reach base when he walked to open the third.

   Valdes almost lost his shutout before his no-hitter when he
threw wildly to first trying to pick off Tijada, who raced all the
way to third.

   With the infield playing in, A's catcher A.J. Hinch grounded
sharply to second, but Juan Castro looked Tijada back to third and
threw to first for the out. Valdes then struck out Rogers and
Henderson to end the inning.

   Like Tuesday night, when the Dodgers used three Oakland errors
to win, they scored their run after Rogers misplayed Castor's slow
roller to the mound. Valdes sacrificed Castro to second and one out
later, Mondesi singled for the RBI.

   Rogers, who already has matched his victory total for last
season with the Yankees, settled down.

   Young, who joined the A's last November after two turbulent
seasons in New York, showed why he once pitched a perfect game for
Texas and was considered one of the top left-handers in the
American League.

   He allowed a leadoff single to Charles Johnson in the fifth, but
Castro grounded into a double play. Valdes then hit a sharp one
hopper off Rogers, but Tejada raced in from short and made an
off-balanced throw to first for the out.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0024 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 02:07 ',
			header: '
A4193 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GLF-BUICK-WESTWOOD-NY     06-11 0680
',
			slug: ' BC-GLF-BUICK-WESTWOOD-NYT ',
			headline: '
WESTWOOD ARRIVING AS THREAT IN BUICK 
',
			trailer: '
   HARRISON, N.Y. _ By anyone's standards, Lee Westwood is having a
special year.

   He leads the PGA European Tour money list, with back-to-back
victories during the last two weeks. In March, he won for the first
time in the United States, winning the Freeport-McDermott Classic
in New Orleans. And by virtue of his strong play during the last
eight months, he has soared to No. 13 in the world ranking _ a
lofty position for someone who turned 25 in April.

   More and more, whenever golf's top players are mentioned,
Westwood's name is included. So as he prepared for the Buick
Classic, which begins Thursday at Westchester Country Club,
confidence was not a problem.

   ``I'm playing at a high level now,'' said Westwood, a native of
England, who helped Europe defeat the United States in last year's
Ryder Cup. ``It's nice people give me a chance to win each week.
I'm playing better this year than the last two, but it's continuing
to improve. No. 1 in the world is definitely a goal.''

   Winning at Westchester would enhance Westwood's reputation,
especially considering the strength of the field. Seventeen of the
30 top-ranked players in the world will tee off on Thursday: Ernie
Els, Davis Love III, Tom Lehman, Jim Furyk, Vijay Singh, Mark
Calcavecchia, Jesper Parnevik, Jose Maria Olazabal, Steve Jones,
Jeff Maggert, Bernhard Langer, Darren Clarke, Steve Elkington, Brad
Faxon, Frank Nobilo, Stewart Cink and Westwood.

   A couple of things made this week's tournament attractive for
top players. The challenging Westchester layout is a good tuneup
for next week's U.S. Open at the Olympic Club in San Francisco. And
for European players, such as Westwood, stopping in New York this
week was a sensible way to break up the trip to San Francisco. A
number of prominent Europeans are in the field, including Olazabal,
Langer, Nick Faldo and Ian Woosnam.

   For Westwood, a global schedule is nothing new. While he plans
to play in about 13 tournaments in the United States this year, he
has no desire to join the PGA Tour full time, at least not yet.

   ``I like playing everywhere,'' said Westwood, who won the
National Car Rental English Open on Sunday, after winning the
Deutsche Bank SAP Open the week before. ``I'll play a little bit
more over here next year, but I can handle the travel.''

   Westwood can also handle himself on the course. Long and
accurate off the tee, he plays with the poise of someone who
expects to win. And his rapid improvement indicates that he is a
fast learner. After winning in New Orleans the week before the
Masters, he received plenty of attention at Augusta, but he
finished a disappointing 44th. He remembers that experience, and he
will use it to help him next week at the U.S. Open.

   ``After winning at New Orleans, my expectations were too high,''
Westwood said. ``I didn't play particularly well at Augusta. I
learned not to get carried away.''

   But the Masters was not a wasted trip for Westwood. While there,
he received some advice from Gary Player, one of the greatest
players in the history of golf. Player urged him to lose weight,
and Westwood has dropped seven pounds from his stocky frame in the
last five weeks.

   ``I said, `Gee, thanks, I already know I'm fat,''' Westwood
said, laughing when asked how he took Player's advice. ``But I took
it as he meant it. He was trying to be helpful. I guess he was
right, based on the last two weeks.

   ``Over the last five weeks I've been working out, cutting back
on some of the foods and the beer. I did it for myself, to help me.
I wasn't feeling fresh when I left the course. Coming into the last
few holes, I was a bit tired. It was hard to get into at first, but
now it feels good. I'm going to keep it up.''

   And Westwood also plans to keep winning.

   ``I wouldn't say this is a breakthrough year, because I had won
before,'' he said. ``But it's a continuation of good play. And it's
been enjoyable.'' &QL;
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 By CLIFTON BROWN    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   HARRISON, N.Y. _ By anyone's standards, Lee Westwood is having a
special year.

   He leads the PGA European Tour money list, with back-to-back
victories during the last two weeks. In March, he won for the first
time in the United States, winning the Freeport-McDermott Classic
in New Orleans. And by virtue of his strong play during the last
eight months, he has soared to No. 13 in the world ranking _ a
lofty position for someone who turned 25 in April.

   More and more, whenever golf's top players are mentioned,
Westwood's name is included. So as he prepared for the Buick
Classic, which begins Thursday at Westchester Country Club,
confidence was not a problem.

   ``I'm playing at a high level now,'' said Westwood, a native of
England, who helped Europe defeat the United States in last year's
Ryder Cup. ``It's nice people give me a chance to win each week.
I'm playing better this year than the last two, but it's continuing
to improve. No. 1 in the world is definitely a goal.''

   Winning at Westchester would enhance Westwood's reputation,
especially considering the strength of the field. Seventeen of the
30 top-ranked players in the world will tee off on Thursday: Ernie
Els, Davis Love III, Tom Lehman, Jim Furyk, Vijay Singh, Mark
Calcavecchia, Jesper Parnevik, Jose Maria Olazabal, Steve Jones,
Jeff Maggert, Bernhard Langer, Darren Clarke, Steve Elkington, Brad
Faxon, Frank Nobilo, Stewart Cink and Westwood.

   A couple of things made this week's tournament attractive for
top players. The challenging Westchester layout is a good tuneup
for next week's U.S. Open at the Olympic Club in San Francisco. And
for European players, such as Westwood, stopping in New York this
week was a sensible way to break up the trip to San Francisco. A
number of prominent Europeans are in the field, including Olazabal,
Langer, Nick Faldo and Ian Woosnam.

   For Westwood, a global schedule is nothing new. While he plans
to play in about 13 tournaments in the United States this year, he
has no desire to join the PGA Tour full time, at least not yet.

   ``I like playing everywhere,'' said Westwood, who won the
National Car Rental English Open on Sunday, after winning the
Deutsche Bank SAP Open the week before. ``I'll play a little bit
more over here next year, but I can handle the travel.''

   Westwood can also handle himself on the course. Long and
accurate off the tee, he plays with the poise of someone who
expects to win. And his rapid improvement indicates that he is a
fast learner. After winning in New Orleans the week before the
Masters, he received plenty of attention at Augusta, but he
finished a disappointing 44th. He remembers that experience, and he
will use it to help him next week at the U.S. Open.

   ``After winning at New Orleans, my expectations were too high,''
Westwood said. ``I didn't play particularly well at Augusta. I
learned not to get carried away.''

   But the Masters was not a wasted trip for Westwood. While there,
he received some advice from Gary Player, one of the greatest
players in the history of golf. Player urged him to lose weight,
and Westwood has dropped seven pounds from his stocky frame in the
last five weeks.

   ``I said, `Gee, thanks, I already know I'm fat,''' Westwood
said, laughing when asked how he took Player's advice. ``But I took
it as he meant it. He was trying to be helpful. I guess he was
right, based on the last two weeks.

   ``Over the last five weeks I've been working out, cutting back
on some of the foods and the beer. I did it for myself, to help me.
I wasn't feeling fresh when I left the course. Coming into the last
few holes, I was a bit tired. It was hard to get into at first, but
now it feels good. I'm going to keep it up.''

   And Westwood also plans to keep winning.

   ``I wouldn't say this is a breakthrough year, because I had won
before,'' he said. ``But it's a continuation of good play. And it's
been enjoyable.'' &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0025 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 02:16 ',
			header: '
A4196 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HKN-REDWINGS-KOCUR-NY     06-11 0868
',
			slug: ' BC-HKN-REDWINGS-KOCUR-NYT ',
			headline: '
THE RED WINGS' TOUGH GUY ENJOYS AN UNLIKELY RENAISSANCE 
',
			trailer: '
   DETROIT _ Joe Kocur's face didn't make the cover of The Rolling
Stone, but it takes up about half of page 101 of the current issue.

   The music magazine is a strange place to find one of hockey's
top fighting specialists, a man who calls himself ``a country guy''
in reference to both his musical tastes and his boyhood in Western
Canada.

   The black-and-white photograph of his menacing expression
illustrates a story about hockey fighting. The magazine's next
hockey story might have to include Kocur in a list of players who
score important goals in the Stanley Cup finals.

   Kocur got the first one on Tuesday night to help the Detroit Red
Wings to a 2-1 victory over the Washington Capitals in Game 1 at
Joe Louis Arena. Game 2 of the four-of-seven-game championship
round will be here on Thursday night.

   When the Wings won the title last season after sweeping the
Philadelphia Flyers, one of their scorers in the first game was Joe
Kocur. For a veteran who had washed out of hockey two years ago,
Kocur has made a remarkable comeback. The goal was his fourth of
this spring's playoffs.

   In a career that began in 1984, Kocur had scored only five
post-season goals before this spring. He might have even more in
this tournament had he not been held out of uniform for four of the
six games in the Wings' previous series against the Dallas Stars.

   Not that Kocur is complaining. After playing with the Red Wings
until the 1990-91 season and with the Rangers until late in the
1995-96 season, he finished with Vancouver and could not find a job
in the National Hockey League. Living in suburban Detroit, he
played recreationally in what is called a ``beer league.'' He got
tickets to Wings games from a friend and hung around the locker
room just to remind management that he was unemployed.

   ``Out of sight, out of mind didn't help,'' said Kocur, now 33
years old. ``I made myself known.''

   Kocur got a glimpse of life as a former athlete. It enlightened
him. ``When you see the end is near, you get a second lease on
life,'' Kocur said. ``You make the best of it.''

   He began to notice that fans treated him differently, that the
complimentary tickets to shows weren't so readily available. ``When
your career is over, those people forget about you pretty
quickly,'' Kocur said.

   Steve Yzerman, the captain, put in a good word with Scotty
Bowman, the coach. At the time, Bowman thought that players such as
Brendan Shanahan, Martin Lapointe and Darren McCarty were fighting
too much.

   Kocur, with as many as 377 penalty minutes in a single season
and almost 2,000 in his career, could still fight if necessary.
More likely, his presence on the bench might discourage other teams
from starting trouble. Around Christmas of 1996, the Wings offered
him work.

   ``He is a really smart player,'' Bowman said. ``He knows how to
play hockey. That sounds strange, but he's really got a big sense
of the game. And he's got the reputation.''

   The reputation was that of a scary puncher who might knock a foe
unconscious with one swing. His hands, which have had surgery, are
legendary for their scars. There have been infections. Sometimes,
the knuckles bleed easily. The worst is his mangled right fist.

   ``It's not a normal hand,'' Kocur said. ``It gets the job done.
That's the best way to put it.''

   This season, he said, he had to fight ``maybe a half-dozen
times, more out of necessity, when it's called for.''

   In the playoffs, particularly in the late rounds, fighting is
rare. This creates new dynamics when players of Yzerman's skill are
bullied by opponents like Dale Hunter of the Capitals, as was the
case twice in Game 1.

   Although Kocur got penalized for roughing Hunter, the
retaliation was not the fistic sort of a regular-season game.

   ``Yeah, well, in a regular-season game, Hunter wouldn't do
that,'' Kocur said, referring to Hunter's attacks on Yzerman.
``You've got to live with it. It's not going to help us to go back
after Hunter.''

   Instead, Kocur suggested, the Wings might retaliate against
highly skilled Capitals, such as Peter Bondra and Andrei
Nikolishin.

   ``Show them,'' Kocur said. ``If they are going to go after
Stevie, we're going to do it to your guys.''

   In his first tour in Detroit, Kocur was a friend of Bob Probert.
They were the Bruise Brothers, men about town, as active after
games as during them. Now married and a father, Kocur is a team
elder, inspiring tough young players like McCarty.

   ``We don't call him `Papa' for nothing,'' McCarty said. ``His
leadership factor goes well beyond what he does on the ice. Last
year, he came in here and taught us what it was like to win a
Stanley Cup. A lot of times, he's a soothing voice in here. He
takes care of a lot of things.''

   Kocur won his first Stanley Cup ring with the Rangers in 1994.
He won his second last season. Should the Wings win three more
games, he will get his third ring to fit over his gnarled fingers,
giving him a diamond-studded set on hands that do more than score. &QL;
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 By JOE LAPOINTE    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   DETROIT _ Joe Kocur's face didn't make the cover of The Rolling
Stone, but it takes up about half of page 101 of the current issue.

   The music magazine is a strange place to find one of hockey's
top fighting specialists, a man who calls himself ``a country guy''
in reference to both his musical tastes and his boyhood in Western
Canada.

   The black-and-white photograph of his menacing expression
illustrates a story about hockey fighting. The magazine's next
hockey story might have to include Kocur in a list of players who
score important goals in the Stanley Cup finals.

   Kocur got the first one on Tuesday night to help the Detroit Red
Wings to a 2-1 victory over the Washington Capitals in Game 1 at
Joe Louis Arena. Game 2 of the four-of-seven-game championship
round will be here on Thursday night.

   When the Wings won the title last season after sweeping the
Philadelphia Flyers, one of their scorers in the first game was Joe
Kocur. For a veteran who had washed out of hockey two years ago,
Kocur has made a remarkable comeback. The goal was his fourth of
this spring's playoffs.

   In a career that began in 1984, Kocur had scored only five
post-season goals before this spring. He might have even more in
this tournament had he not been held out of uniform for four of the
six games in the Wings' previous series against the Dallas Stars.

   Not that Kocur is complaining. After playing with the Red Wings
until the 1990-91 season and with the Rangers until late in the
1995-96 season, he finished with Vancouver and could not find a job
in the National Hockey League. Living in suburban Detroit, he
played recreationally in what is called a ``beer league.'' He got
tickets to Wings games from a friend and hung around the locker
room just to remind management that he was unemployed.

   ``Out of sight, out of mind didn't help,'' said Kocur, now 33
years old. ``I made myself known.''

   Kocur got a glimpse of life as a former athlete. It enlightened
him. ``When you see the end is near, you get a second lease on
life,'' Kocur said. ``You make the best of it.''

   He began to notice that fans treated him differently, that the
complimentary tickets to shows weren't so readily available. ``When
your career is over, those people forget about you pretty
quickly,'' Kocur said.

   Steve Yzerman, the captain, put in a good word with Scotty
Bowman, the coach. At the time, Bowman thought that players such as
Brendan Shanahan, Martin Lapointe and Darren McCarty were fighting
too much.

   Kocur, with as many as 377 penalty minutes in a single season
and almost 2,000 in his career, could still fight if necessary.
More likely, his presence on the bench might discourage other teams
from starting trouble. Around Christmas of 1996, the Wings offered
him work.

   ``He is a really smart player,'' Bowman said. ``He knows how to
play hockey. That sounds strange, but he's really got a big sense
of the game. And he's got the reputation.''

   The reputation was that of a scary puncher who might knock a foe
unconscious with one swing. His hands, which have had surgery, are
legendary for their scars. There have been infections. Sometimes,
the knuckles bleed easily. The worst is his mangled right fist.

   ``It's not a normal hand,'' Kocur said. ``It gets the job done.
That's the best way to put it.''

   This season, he said, he had to fight ``maybe a half-dozen
times, more out of necessity, when it's called for.''

   In the playoffs, particularly in the late rounds, fighting is
rare. This creates new dynamics when players of Yzerman's skill are
bullied by opponents like Dale Hunter of the Capitals, as was the
case twice in Game 1.

   Although Kocur got penalized for roughing Hunter, the
retaliation was not the fistic sort of a regular-season game.

   ``Yeah, well, in a regular-season game, Hunter wouldn't do
that,'' Kocur said, referring to Hunter's attacks on Yzerman.
``You've got to live with it. It's not going to help us to go back
after Hunter.''

   Instead, Kocur suggested, the Wings might retaliate against
highly skilled Capitals, such as Peter Bondra and Andrei
Nikolishin.

   ``Show them,'' Kocur said. ``If they are going to go after
Stevie, we're going to do it to your guys.''

   In his first tour in Detroit, Kocur was a friend of Bob Probert.
They were the Bruise Brothers, men about town, as active after
games as during them. Now married and a father, Kocur is a team
elder, inspiring tough young players like McCarty.

   ``We don't call him `Papa' for nothing,'' McCarty said. ``His
leadership factor goes well beyond what he does on the ice. Last
year, he came in here and taught us what it was like to win a
Stanley Cup. A lot of times, he's a soothing voice in here. He
takes care of a lot of things.''

   Kocur won his first Stanley Cup ring with the Rangers in 1994.
He won his second last season. Should the Wings win three more
games, he will get his third ring to fit over his gnarled fingers,
giving him a diamond-studded set on hands that do more than score. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0026 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 02:19 ',
			header: '
A4198 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TRAVOLTA-NAMESUIT-LAD     06-11 0403
',
			slug: ' BC-TRAVOLTA-NAMESUIT-LADN ',
			headline: '
TRAVOLTA SUES OVER ALLEGED ILLICIT USE OF HIS NAME
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES -- A $5 million lawsuit filed by John Travolta
accuses two men of using his name without his permission to lure
investors to their film companies, his attorney said.

   ``I can tell you John Travolta never talked to them, never gave
them any consent and there was never any oral agreement or written
agreement,'' attorney John Lavely Jr. said Wednesday. ``They have
no basis for using his name.''

   The suit was filed Monday in Superior Court in suburban Van Nuys
against George Jarvis III and David Nava, owners and partners of
Silverado Films Inc. and its finance company, Capital Funding Group
Inc.

   Jarvis could not be reached for comment. Nava denied in an
interview that the companies committed fraud and said he had
permission to use the name.

   ``It got his name out in a positive way,'' Nava said, ``and we
didn't make any money out of this. We've been blackballed from
Hollywood.''

   The suit alleges that Jarvis and Nava ``knowingly and
fraudulently'' published Travolta's name in an advertisement that
appeared in USA Today on April 29. The ad offered the sale of 1
million shares of stock in Silverado Films, which was named ``in
association with John Travolta Productions.''

   According to the lawsuit, Travolta is seeking at least $5
million in damages plus gross revenues and profits from the use of
his name. ``We don't yet know how much the defendants have received
from the sale of stock and the use of John Travolta's name,''
Lavely said.

   The suit said Nava and Jarvis continued to use Travolta's name
despite a letter requesting them to stop. Nava said he did not
receive the notice and is no longer using the actor's name.

   Nava said he had received permission to use the name from
Travolta's brother-in-law Chris Palzis, whom he named as a former
partner. ``We didn't just wake up one morning and decide to use his
name,'' Nava said Wednesday.

   But Lavely said Palzis did not give such permission.

   ``Mr. Palzis has vehemently stated that he didn't have the
permission and knew he didn't have permission to use the name,''
Lavely said. ``He hasn't availed himself to use it for his own use
in the past, so why would he allow strangers to use it?''

   XXX
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By JENNIFER KNIGHT  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES -- A $5 million lawsuit filed by John Travolta
accuses two men of using his name without his permission to lure
investors to their film companies, his attorney said.

   ``I can tell you John Travolta never talked to them, never gave
them any consent and there was never any oral agreement or written
agreement,'' attorney John Lavely Jr. said Wednesday. ``They have
no basis for using his name.''

   The suit was filed Monday in Superior Court in suburban Van Nuys
against George Jarvis III and David Nava, owners and partners of
Silverado Films Inc. and its finance company, Capital Funding Group
Inc.

   Jarvis could not be reached for comment. Nava denied in an
interview that the companies committed fraud and said he had
permission to use the name.

   ``It got his name out in a positive way,'' Nava said, ``and we
didn't make any money out of this. We've been blackballed from
Hollywood.''

   The suit alleges that Jarvis and Nava ``knowingly and
fraudulently'' published Travolta's name in an advertisement that
appeared in USA Today on April 29. The ad offered the sale of 1
million shares of stock in Silverado Films, which was named ``in
association with John Travolta Productions.''

   According to the lawsuit, Travolta is seeking at least $5
million in damages plus gross revenues and profits from the use of
his name. ``We don't yet know how much the defendants have received
from the sale of stock and the use of John Travolta's name,''
Lavely said.

   The suit said Nava and Jarvis continued to use Travolta's name
despite a letter requesting them to stop. Nava said he did not
receive the notice and is no longer using the actor's name.

   Nava said he had received permission to use the name from
Travolta's brother-in-law Chris Palzis, whom he named as a former
partner. ``We didn't just wake up one morning and decide to use his
name,'' Nava said Wednesday.

   But Lavely said Palzis did not give such permission.

   ``Mr. Palzis has vehemently stated that he didn't have the
permission and knew he didn't have permission to use the name,''
Lavely said. ``He hasn't availed himself to use it for his own use
in the past, so why would he allow strangers to use it?''

   XXX
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0027 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 02:44 ',
			header: '
A4218 &Cx1f; tab-z
r i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NO-NATO-KOSOVO-OPED-I     06-11 0889
',
			slug: ' BC-NO-NATO-KOSOVO-OPED-IHT-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
KOSOVO ISN'T BOSNIA _ STAY OUT OF IT, NATO  
 
',
			trailer: '
   BRUSSELS _ Once more, miserable groups of old people, women and
children stream down Balkan mountainsides, fleeing their burning
homes. With Bosnia fresh in the mind, calls for NATO action in
Kosovo are becoming more strident.

   A number of immediate measures were agreed upon at the recent
meeting of the alliance's foreign ministers, and further options
are under examination. NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana has
said repeatedly that ``nothing is ruled out.''

   But one thing should be ruled out: an armed incursion by the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization into Kosovo.

   The comparison with Bosnia is erroneous and dangerous. In
Bosnia, Muslims were defending themselves against murder and
expulsion by well-armed Bosnian Serbs.

   In Kosovo, the self-styled army of liberation is fighting the
regular Yugoslav military in an attempt to break away from Serbia.
A NATO incursion would be seen as support for that movement _
something else again from stopping mass murder.

   The postwar European settlement was determined by the 1975 Final
Act of the Helsinki Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe. This rests on the maxim that frontiers will not be changed
by force.

   The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, consisting of Serbia and
Montenegro, is a legally recognized country with internationally
accepted borders. Kosovo is a province of Serbia, whatever the
so-called ethnic composition of its population.

   Breaking or circumventing this maxim would be extremely
dangerous. It would be opposed by other parties to the Final Act,
Russia in particular. It would also open a Pandora's box in the
ethnically intermingled Balkans.

   There is also a practical aspect: An attack by NATO in Kosovo
would be countered by regular Yugoslav troops. Unlike the ragtag
forces of the Bosnian Serbs, this is a disciplined and
well-organized force that would be defending its homeland against
external aggression.

   Although NATO could undoubtedly raise a larger and technically
far superior force, an attack could be extremely costly in terms of
Yugoslav and allied casualties. The outcome would be uncertain; it
could well become NATO's Suez.

   In fact, neither the will nor the means for such action exist in
the alliance. The U.S. Congress is attempting to reduce military
commitments overseas. All European allies are streamlining their
forces and shaping them for rapid deployment to crisis points
rather than for engagement in a massive, possibly drawn-out,
conflict.

   Nevertheless, the Kosovo crisis must be faced. In addition to
the increasing exodus of refugees, the danger of the conflict's
spreading to neighboring countries is evident.

   It could draw in Albania as well as Macedonia and Bulgaria,
which have sizable ethnic Albanian elements, in addition to Greece
and Turkey.

   As immediate measures, NATO will begin helping Albania
reconstitute its army and will organize peacekeeping exercises in
Albania and Macedonia. It is also sending a naval force to the
Albanian port of Durres, and an airborne warning and control
detachment is to move to Macedonia this week.

   Further options include deploying NATO forces along the Albanian
border with Kosovo, reinforcing the small U.N. force in Macedonia
and establishing a no-fly zone, similar to that enforced over
Bosnia.

   But an incursion into Kosovo is not under consideration, and
suggestions that one is are dangerous and harmful.

   As long as intervention appears a possibility, it raises
expectations that cannot be met and that can result in actions by
the Kosovo Liberation Army that would cause further bloodshed.

   President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia is rightly detested
for the havoc he has caused with his policies and actions. He
should be made to respect the rights of individuals and minorities.
But methods and organizations other than NATO exist _ and action by
them is now essential. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish this 600-word article from the International Herald
Tribune, it must be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from
New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in
Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at
816-822-1444.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (Commentary)   (This timely 600-word ``separate buy'' article is from the
International Herald Tribune.)  
  
 (EDITORS: To broaden your newspaper's borders _ and readers'
horizons _ the New York Times Syndicate is pleased to offer you the
following article from the renowned International Herald Tribune.
  
 (The highly respected IHT delivers a distinctly international
perspective on the news (six times weekly) from the heart of
Europe, Paris.)  
  
 (To publish this IHT article, it must be purchased _ the rate is
not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)  
  
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``i'' international news and ``k'' commentary news files.)  
  
 By FREDERICK BONNART  
 c.1998 International Herald Tribune  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  

',
			paragraphs: '
   BRUSSELS _ Once more, miserable groups of old people, women and
children stream down Balkan mountainsides, fleeing their burning
homes. With Bosnia fresh in the mind, calls for NATO action in
Kosovo are becoming more strident.

   A number of immediate measures were agreed upon at the recent
meeting of the alliance's foreign ministers, and further options
are under examination. NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana has
said repeatedly that ``nothing is ruled out.''

   But one thing should be ruled out: an armed incursion by the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization into Kosovo.

   The comparison with Bosnia is erroneous and dangerous. In
Bosnia, Muslims were defending themselves against murder and
expulsion by well-armed Bosnian Serbs.

   In Kosovo, the self-styled army of liberation is fighting the
regular Yugoslav military in an attempt to break away from Serbia.
A NATO incursion would be seen as support for that movement _
something else again from stopping mass murder.

   The postwar European settlement was determined by the 1975 Final
Act of the Helsinki Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe. This rests on the maxim that frontiers will not be changed
by force.

   The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, consisting of Serbia and
Montenegro, is a legally recognized country with internationally
accepted borders. Kosovo is a province of Serbia, whatever the
so-called ethnic composition of its population.

   Breaking or circumventing this maxim would be extremely
dangerous. It would be opposed by other parties to the Final Act,
Russia in particular. It would also open a Pandora's box in the
ethnically intermingled Balkans.

   There is also a practical aspect: An attack by NATO in Kosovo
would be countered by regular Yugoslav troops. Unlike the ragtag
forces of the Bosnian Serbs, this is a disciplined and
well-organized force that would be defending its homeland against
external aggression.

   Although NATO could undoubtedly raise a larger and technically
far superior force, an attack could be extremely costly in terms of
Yugoslav and allied casualties. The outcome would be uncertain; it
could well become NATO's Suez.

   In fact, neither the will nor the means for such action exist in
the alliance. The U.S. Congress is attempting to reduce military
commitments overseas. All European allies are streamlining their
forces and shaping them for rapid deployment to crisis points
rather than for engagement in a massive, possibly drawn-out,
conflict.

   Nevertheless, the Kosovo crisis must be faced. In addition to
the increasing exodus of refugees, the danger of the conflict's
spreading to neighboring countries is evident.

   It could draw in Albania as well as Macedonia and Bulgaria,
which have sizable ethnic Albanian elements, in addition to Greece
and Turkey.

   As immediate measures, NATO will begin helping Albania
reconstitute its army and will organize peacekeeping exercises in
Albania and Macedonia. It is also sending a naval force to the
Albanian port of Durres, and an airborne warning and control
detachment is to move to Macedonia this week.

   Further options include deploying NATO forces along the Albanian
border with Kosovo, reinforcing the small U.N. force in Macedonia
and establishing a no-fly zone, similar to that enforced over
Bosnia.

   But an incursion into Kosovo is not under consideration, and
suggestions that one is are dangerous and harmful.

   As long as intervention appears a possibility, it raises
expectations that cannot be met and that can result in actions by
the Kosovo Liberation Army that would cause further bloodshed.

   President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia is rightly detested
for the havoc he has caused with his policies and actions. He
should be made to respect the rights of individuals and minorities.
But methods and organizations other than NATO exist _ and action by
them is now essential. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish this 600-word article from the International Herald
Tribune, it must be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from
New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in
Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at
816-822-1444.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0028 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 02:45 ',
			header: '
A4219 &Cx1f; tab-z
r k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NO-NATO-KOSOVO-OPED-I     06-11 0889
',
			slug: ' BC-NO-NATO-KOSOVO-OPED-IHT-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
KOSOVO ISN'T BOSNIA _ STAY OUT OF IT, NATO  
 
',
			trailer: '
   BRUSSELS _ Once more, miserable groups of old people, women and
children stream down Balkan mountainsides, fleeing their burning
homes. With Bosnia fresh in the mind, calls for NATO action in
Kosovo are becoming more strident.

   A number of immediate measures were agreed upon at the recent
meeting of the alliance's foreign ministers, and further options
are under examination. NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana has
said repeatedly that ``nothing is ruled out.''

   But one thing should be ruled out: an armed incursion by the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization into Kosovo.

   The comparison with Bosnia is erroneous and dangerous. In
Bosnia, Muslims were defending themselves against murder and
expulsion by well-armed Bosnian Serbs.

   In Kosovo, the self-styled army of liberation is fighting the
regular Yugoslav military in an attempt to break away from Serbia.
A NATO incursion would be seen as support for that movement _
something else again from stopping mass murder.

   The postwar European settlement was determined by the 1975 Final
Act of the Helsinki Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe. This rests on the maxim that frontiers will not be changed
by force.

   The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, consisting of Serbia and
Montenegro, is a legally recognized country with internationally
accepted borders. Kosovo is a province of Serbia, whatever the
so-called ethnic composition of its population.

   Breaking or circumventing this maxim would be extremely
dangerous. It would be opposed by other parties to the Final Act,
Russia in particular. It would also open a Pandora's box in the
ethnically intermingled Balkans.

   There is also a practical aspect: An attack by NATO in Kosovo
would be countered by regular Yugoslav troops. Unlike the ragtag
forces of the Bosnian Serbs, this is a disciplined and
well-organized force that would be defending its homeland against
external aggression.

   Although NATO could undoubtedly raise a larger and technically
far superior force, an attack could be extremely costly in terms of
Yugoslav and allied casualties. The outcome would be uncertain; it
could well become NATO's Suez.

   In fact, neither the will nor the means for such action exist in
the alliance. The U.S. Congress is attempting to reduce military
commitments overseas. All European allies are streamlining their
forces and shaping them for rapid deployment to crisis points
rather than for engagement in a massive, possibly drawn-out,
conflict.

   Nevertheless, the Kosovo crisis must be faced. In addition to
the increasing exodus of refugees, the danger of the conflict's
spreading to neighboring countries is evident.

   It could draw in Albania as well as Macedonia and Bulgaria,
which have sizable ethnic Albanian elements, in addition to Greece
and Turkey.

   As immediate measures, NATO will begin helping Albania
reconstitute its army and will organize peacekeeping exercises in
Albania and Macedonia. It is also sending a naval force to the
Albanian port of Durres, and an airborne warning and control
detachment is to move to Macedonia this week.

   Further options include deploying NATO forces along the Albanian
border with Kosovo, reinforcing the small U.N. force in Macedonia
and establishing a no-fly zone, similar to that enforced over
Bosnia.

   But an incursion into Kosovo is not under consideration, and
suggestions that one is are dangerous and harmful.

   As long as intervention appears a possibility, it raises
expectations that cannot be met and that can result in actions by
the Kosovo Liberation Army that would cause further bloodshed.

   President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia is rightly detested
for the havoc he has caused with his policies and actions. He
should be made to respect the rights of individuals and minorities.
But methods and organizations other than NATO exist _ and action by
them is now essential. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish this 600-word article from the International Herald
Tribune, it must be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from
New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in
Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at
816-822-1444.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (Commentary)   (This timely 600-word ``separate buy'' article is from the
International Herald Tribune.)  
  
 (EDITORS: To broaden your newspaper's borders _ and readers'
horizons _ the New York Times Syndicate is pleased to offer you the
following article from the renowned International Herald Tribune.
  
 (The highly respected IHT delivers a distinctly international
perspective on the news (six times weekly) from the heart of
Europe, Paris.)  
  
 (To publish this IHT article, it must be purchased _ the rate is
not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.)  
  
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``i'' international news and ``k'' commentary news files.)  
  
 By FREDERICK BONNART  
 c.1998 International Herald Tribune  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  

',
			paragraphs: '
   BRUSSELS _ Once more, miserable groups of old people, women and
children stream down Balkan mountainsides, fleeing their burning
homes. With Bosnia fresh in the mind, calls for NATO action in
Kosovo are becoming more strident.

   A number of immediate measures were agreed upon at the recent
meeting of the alliance's foreign ministers, and further options
are under examination. NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana has
said repeatedly that ``nothing is ruled out.''

   But one thing should be ruled out: an armed incursion by the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization into Kosovo.

   The comparison with Bosnia is erroneous and dangerous. In
Bosnia, Muslims were defending themselves against murder and
expulsion by well-armed Bosnian Serbs.

   In Kosovo, the self-styled army of liberation is fighting the
regular Yugoslav military in an attempt to break away from Serbia.
A NATO incursion would be seen as support for that movement _
something else again from stopping mass murder.

   The postwar European settlement was determined by the 1975 Final
Act of the Helsinki Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe. This rests on the maxim that frontiers will not be changed
by force.

   The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, consisting of Serbia and
Montenegro, is a legally recognized country with internationally
accepted borders. Kosovo is a province of Serbia, whatever the
so-called ethnic composition of its population.

   Breaking or circumventing this maxim would be extremely
dangerous. It would be opposed by other parties to the Final Act,
Russia in particular. It would also open a Pandora's box in the
ethnically intermingled Balkans.

   There is also a practical aspect: An attack by NATO in Kosovo
would be countered by regular Yugoslav troops. Unlike the ragtag
forces of the Bosnian Serbs, this is a disciplined and
well-organized force that would be defending its homeland against
external aggression.

   Although NATO could undoubtedly raise a larger and technically
far superior force, an attack could be extremely costly in terms of
Yugoslav and allied casualties. The outcome would be uncertain; it
could well become NATO's Suez.

   In fact, neither the will nor the means for such action exist in
the alliance. The U.S. Congress is attempting to reduce military
commitments overseas. All European allies are streamlining their
forces and shaping them for rapid deployment to crisis points
rather than for engagement in a massive, possibly drawn-out,
conflict.

   Nevertheless, the Kosovo crisis must be faced. In addition to
the increasing exodus of refugees, the danger of the conflict's
spreading to neighboring countries is evident.

   It could draw in Albania as well as Macedonia and Bulgaria,
which have sizable ethnic Albanian elements, in addition to Greece
and Turkey.

   As immediate measures, NATO will begin helping Albania
reconstitute its army and will organize peacekeeping exercises in
Albania and Macedonia. It is also sending a naval force to the
Albanian port of Durres, and an airborne warning and control
detachment is to move to Macedonia this week.

   Further options include deploying NATO forces along the Albanian
border with Kosovo, reinforcing the small U.N. force in Macedonia
and establishing a no-fly zone, similar to that enforced over
Bosnia.

   But an incursion into Kosovo is not under consideration, and
suggestions that one is are dangerous and harmful.

   As long as intervention appears a possibility, it raises
expectations that cannot be met and that can result in actions by
the Kosovo Liberation Army that would cause further bloodshed.

   President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia is rightly detested
for the havoc he has caused with his policies and actions. He
should be made to respect the rights of individuals and minorities.
But methods and organizations other than NATO exist _ and action by
them is now essential. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish this 600-word article from the International Herald
Tribune, it must be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from
New York Times Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in
Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at
816-822-1444.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0029 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 03:05 ',
			header: '
A4222 &Cx1f; taf-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NATIONAL-SLUGLIST-CLO     06-11 4072
',
			slug: ' BC-NATIONAL-SLUGLIST-CLOSER ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; NATIONAL &LR;  stories and general ADVISORIES that
moved Wednesday, June 10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y.
Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   ADVISORIES

   A4124 PM-BUDGET-NYT 1608 00:02 U V

   (th)

   A3900 BC-R-HEALTH-ADVISORY-NYT 721 22:47 U V

   (ATTENTION: Managing editors, feature editors, health editors)

   A3853 BC-ELIMINATE-RECAP-NYT 94 22:11 U V

   A3850 BC-NYT-CORRECTIONS 347 22:09 U V

   NEW YORK TIMES CORRECTIONS FOR THURSDAY, JUNE 11

   A3829 BC-GRAPHICS-FILES 169 21:59 U V

   A3817 BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT 1851 21:50 U V

   A3776 BC-SPOT-BJT-WEEKEND-0613 767 21:19 U V

   A3775 BC-SPOT-BUDGET-BOS 220 21:18 U V

   For Release THURSDAY AMs, June 11, 1998

   A3711 BC-COX-BJT-ADVISORY-EELS 49 20:38 U V

   A3712 BC-AZR-BUDGET-AZR 34 20:39 U V

   (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)

   A3706 BC-AZR-BUDGET-AZR 138 20:34 U V

   (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)

   A3654 BC-TIMES-EXPRESS-BUDGET-NYT 805 20:00 U V

   (pr)

   A3651 BC-AZR-BUDGET-AZR 740 19:57 U V

   (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)

   A3650 BC-AZR-BUDGET-AZR 158 19:57 U V

   (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)

   A3636 BC-LADN-BUDGET 197 19:50 U V

   The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following general
stories for u

   A3638 BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-2NDLD-WRITETHRU-HNS 1007 19:50 U V

   Wednesday, June 10, 1998

   A3634 BC-FRONTPAGE-NYT 819 19:49 U V

   (pr)

   A3596 BC-FINFRONTS-NYT 555 19:37 U V

   (lb)

   A3582 BC-BUDGET-SPOT-SPI 742 19:31 U V

   The Seattle Post-Intelligencer plans to move the following
stories for clien

   A3571 BC-EARLY-FRONTPAGE-NYT 585 19:28 U V

   (pr)

   A3500 BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT 286 19:06 U V

   A3484 BC-BC-KAN-BUDGET-KAN 101 19:01 R V

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3456 NYTR-BUDGET-11-AM-CYCLE 2331 18:44 U V

   A3445 BC-SPOT-BJT-THURSDAY 0611 1STLEDE 1279 18:36 U V

   A3374 BC-TEXBUDGET-TEX 770 18:11 U V

   The Fort Worth Star-Telegram plans to move the following stories
for clients

   A3364 BC-BUSINESS-BJT11-COX 641 18:07 R V

   A3365 BC-SPORTS-BJT11-COX 336 18:07 R V

   A3136 AM-PAGE1-CONSIDER-NYT 502 16:30 U V

   Here are the stories New York Times editors are considering for
Page 1, Thurs

   A3105 BC-FEATURE-BUDGET-ART-BOS 518 16:14 U V

   ART ADV.: Photos with HOOD-BOY are being transmitted to NYT
Photo Service subscr

   A3091 BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-1STLD-WRITETHRU-HNS 817 16:08 U V

   Wednesday, June 10, 1998

   A3031 BC-SUNDAY-UPDATE-BUDGET-NYT 981 15:37 U V

   A2993 AM-ADD-NYT-BUDGET 1151 15:23 U V

   A2862 BC-SPOT-BJT-THURSDAY 0611 936 14:39 U V

   A2828 AM-NYT-BUDGET 1368 14:23 U V

   (gm)

   A2813 BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-HNS 391 14:15 U V

   Wednesday, June 10, 1998

   A2698 BC-BUDGET-FEATURE-SPI 300 13:23 R V

   The Seattle Post-Intelligencer plans to move the following
stories for clien

   A2430 NYTR-PHOTO-BUDGET 2374 11:55 R V

   A2415 BC-HEARST-FEATURE-BUDGET-HNS 903 11:44 U V

   Wednesday, June 10, 1998

   A2391 BC-FEATURES-BJT11-COX 867 11:26 R V

   A2389 BC-COMMENTARY-BJT11-COX 339 11:25 R V

   A2201 BC-GREETINGS-NYT 162 07:35 U V

   EDITORS:

   NATIONAL GENERAL

   A4174 BC-INTERNET-MOLESTER-SENTENCED-LADN 473 01:19 R A

   ONLINE MOLESTER GETS 18 MONTHS IN PRISON FOR LURING GIRL ON
INTERNET

   A4167 BC-BOB-HOPE-KNIGHTED-LADN 575 01:14 R A

   BOB HOPE, WIFE RECEIVE PAPAL TITLES

   A4112 BC-OBIT-YEZZO-NYT 733 23:35 U A

   RICHARD YEZZO, 46, CREATOR OF AIDS CENTER

   A4109 BC-NUNS-AZR 827 23:31 R A

   SISTERS OF NO MERCY GIVE HECK TO FOES OF PHOENIX WNBA TEAM

   A4108 BC-NUNS-AZR 827 23:30 R A

   SISTERS OF NO MERCY GIVE HECK TO FOES OF PHOENIX WNBA TEAM

   A4107 BC-MONTINI-COL-AZR 664 23:30 R A

   SYSTEM NOT AT FAULT IN TEEN KILLINGS

   A4104 BC-OBIT-CAHAN-NYT 151 23:29 U A

   MARY ARNOLD CAHAN, MUSEUM ASSOCIATE, DIES AT 71

   A4102 BC-MONTINI-COL-AZR 664 23:28 R A

   SYSTEM NOT AT FAULT IN TEEN KILLINGS

   A4103 BC-TEXAS-HATE-JESSE-COX 809 23:29 U A

   A4092 BC-NY-NIGHTCLUB-BEATING-NYT 506 23:21 U A

   NEW LAWYER FOR DEFENDANT IN BEATING CASE

   A4089 BC-NY-POLICE-RECRUITS-NYT 644 23:13 U A

   COUNCIL SIDES WITH OLDER POLICE CANDIDATES

   A4087 BC-NY-FIREFIGHTER-BRAWL 329 23:11 U A

   INQUIRY HAS NO SUSPECTS IN FIREFIGHTER BRAWL

   A3956 BC-NY-LILCO-NYT 511 23:00 U A

   MERGED POWER COMPANY IS GETTING OFF TO A ROCKY START

   A3948 BC-PUBLIC-LIVES-NYT 650 22:59 U A

   A QUEEN RETAINS STAR APPEAL

   A3906 BC-NY-UPS-THEFT-NYT 707 22:52 U A

   6 DRIVERS CHARGED IN THEFTS FROM UPS

   A3905 BC-CASTLE-COX 956 22:51 U A

   A3904 BC-TEXAS-HATE-COURT-COX 625 22:50 U A

   A3894 BC-NY-METROCARD-NYT 658 22:42 U A

   LOW-COST METROCARD MIGHT BE SOLD ONLY TO TOURISTS

   A3893 BC-RACIAL-ATTACK-JACKSON-HNS 911 22:40 U A

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3891 BC-SCI-TB-GENE-1STLD-WRITETHRU-NYT 1197 22:38 U A

   (EDS: Corrects spelling style of Sanger Center, sted Centre
throughout. Changes

   A3884 BC-NY-FOSTER-PROFILE-NYT 946 22:32 U A

   AGENCY DIRECTOR KNOWS THE NEEDS OF CHILDREN HARDLY CHANGE

   A3881 BC-NY-CITY-UNIV-SEARCH-435&AMP;ADD-NYT 792 22:30 U A

   (ATTN: N.M., Calif., W.Va., Ala.)

   A3882 BC-EXP-EMPLOYEE-AIRFARES-NYT 391 22:31 U A

   GM, CHRYSLER TO RETAIN AIRLINE FOR UNLIMITED EMPLOYEE TRAVEL

   A3878 BC-SKINNYDIP-AZR 632 22:27 R A

   BARE-BONES REALIST WELCOMES NEIGHBORS AT NUDIST RESORT

   A3879 BC-RACIAL-ATTACK-SUSPECTS-HNS 1405 22:28 U A

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3874 BC-JASPER-MOOD-TEX 1086 22:22 R A

   EAST TEXAS TOWN TRYING TO COME TO GRIPS WITH SLAYING

   A3868 BC-NY-FIREFIGHTER-FUNERAL-ART-NYT 731 22:20 U A

   FALLEN FIREFIGHTER IS BURIED IN FARMINGDALE

   A3867 BC-TWA-SEX-HARASS-215&AMP;ADD-NYT 651 22:20 U A

   EEOC SUES TWA OVER SEXUAL HARASSMENT CHARGES

   A3861 BC-EXP-FAT-SUBSTITUTE-FLAWS-NYT 341 22:15 U A

   RESEARCHER WARNS OF FUTURE EFFECTS OF FAT SUBSTITUTE

   A3860 BC-QUOTE-OF-THE-DAY-NYT 121 22:15 R A

   QUOTATION OF THE DAY

   A3857 BC-NY-UTILITY-EXEC-500&AMP;ADD-NYT 1142 22:13 U A

   UTILITY HEAD'S SEVERANCE PACKAGE TERMED `OUTRAGEOUS'

   A3856 BC-GOP-TEXAS-TEX 910 22:12 R A

   PLANK ON ABORTION EXPECTED AT TEXAS GOP CONVENTION

   A3852 BC-NY-DEATH-JUROR-NYT 1224 22:10 U A

   JUROR EXPLAINS TORTUOUS PATH TO VOTING FOR DEATH SENTENCE

   A3848 BC-EXP-INTERNET-SCHOOLS-NYT 337 22:09 U A

   CUTS POSSIBLE IN ONLINE PLAN FOR SCHOOLS AND LIBRARIES

   A3847 BC-NYC-BUDGET-265&AMP;ADD-NYT 1046 22:08 U A

   GIULIANI CUTS $196 MILLION FROM NYC BUDGET; VALLONE FOWS FIGHT

   A3844 BC-NY-POLICE-COMPLAINTS-NYT 305 22:07 U A

   COMPLAINTS AGAINST NEW YORK POLICE RISE

   A3838 BC-EXP-TEXAS-DRAGGING-DEATH-NYT 334 22:04 U A

   REACTION TO HORRIBLE CRIME: SADNESS, SHOCK, SILENCE

   A3837 BC-TEXAS-DRAGGING-DEATH-NYT 890 22:04 U A

   REACTION TO HORRIBLE CRIME: SADNESS, SHOCK, SILENCE

   A3833 BC-FAT-SUBSTITUTE-FLAWS-NYT 846 22:01 U A

   (ATTN: Mass., Ore.)

   A3830 BC-GRAPHICS-FILES 169 21:59 U A

   A3826 BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT 1851 21:57 U A

   A3818 BC-LEAH-PERSONALS-SFCHRON 766 21:51 R A

   (Eds: This story also moved in the ``l'' lifestyle file)

   A3814 BC-EXP-SCI-GIANT-SQUID-NYT 344 21:46 U A

   `SQUIDZILLA' ARRIVES IN MANHATTAN

   A3808 BC-EXP-GM-STRIKE-NYT 427 21:43 U A

   SEVERAL PLANTS CLOSE BECAUSE OF GM STRIKE

   A3805 BC-EXP-FED-GREENSPAN-NYT 395 21:40 U A

   GREENSPAN CALLS ECONOMY `AS IMPRESSIVE AS ANY' HE'S SEEN

   A3803 BC-SAN-FRAN-AIRPORT-275&AMP;ADD-NYT 1087 21:38 U A

   SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT UNDERGOES MAJOR OVERHAUL

   A3802 BC-EXP-DUNKIN-THIEF-NYT 301 21:37 U A

   COPS GRAB DUNKIN' DONUTS ROBBERY SUSPECT NAMED DUNCAN

   A3798 BC-SCI-GIANT-SQUID-ART-511&AMP;ADD-NYT 1126 21:35 U A

   (ATTN: New Zealand)

   A3793 BC-EXP-WIS-SCHOOL-VOUCHERS-NYT 415 21:31 U A

   WISCONSIN COURT BACKS STATE MONEY FOR PRIVATE SCHOOLS

   A3791 BC-EXP-TOBACCO-TRIAL-NYT 343 21:31 U A

   JURY AWARDS $450,000 TO FAMILY OF DEAD SMOKER

   A3787 BC-EXP-TOBACCO-MARRIAGE-NYT 398 21:30 U A

   MARRIAGE-TAX AMENDMENT MOVES ANTI-SMOKING BILL ALONG IN SENATE

   A3785 BC-BAPTISTS-TEX 727 21:28 R A

   FALWELL PROCLAIMS HIMSELF FULL-FLEDGED SOUTHERN BAPTIST

   A3781 BC-EXP-CHINA-CLINTON-BOOK-NYT 341 21:24 U A

   CHINA BANS BOOK THAT DETAILS CLINTON SEX SCANDALS

   A3780 BC-SPOT-BUDGET-BOS 220 21:23 U A

   For Release THURSDAY AMs, June 11, 1998

   A3779 BC-EXP-RUSSIA-IMF-NYT 353 21:22 U A

   IMF DEMANDS IMPROVEMENTS IN RUSSIAN ECONOMY

   A3777 BC-OBIT-DENT-NYT 521 21:20 U A

   (ATTN.: La., Ga., N.Y., Calif.)

   A3773 BC-TAXBREAKS-EDUC-NYT 656 21:17 U A

   (ATTN: Ga., N.J.)

   A3769 BC-DUNKIN-THIEF-NYT 367 21:15 U A

   COPS SEIZE DUNKIN' DONUTS ROBBERY SUSPECT NAMED DUNCAN

   A3764 BC-NY-HOTEL-PRICES-580&AMP;ADD-NYT 1229 21:10 U A

   STAYING IN MANHATTAN: EXPENSIVE PROPOSITION

   A3759 BC-TOBACCO-TRIAL-NYT 1087 21:06 U A

   (ATTN: Calif., Ky., Fla., Minn., Mass.)

   A3757 BC-SOUTHERN-BAPTISTS-HNS 1036 21:05 U A

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3755 BC-EXP-SCI-TB-GENE-NYT 457 21:04 U A

   SCIENTISTS CRACK GENETIC CODE OF TUBERCULOSIS BACTERIUM

   A3748 BC-NJ-COCAINE-SEIZURE-ART-NYT 455 20:57 U A

   (ATTN: Brazil)

   A3747 BC-EXP-KAN-GRAIN-ELEVATOR-NYT 253 20:57 U A

   3 MORE VICTIMS OF GRAIN ELEVATOR BLAST ARE FOUND

   A3746 BC-R-KAN-GRAIN-ELEVATOR-ART-NYT 938 20:56 U A

   (Repeating to add art note)

   A3743 BC-EXP-TOBACCO-LOTT-NYT 376 20:55 U A

   SENATE GOP LEADER WALKS TOBACCO TIGHTROPE

   A3737 BC-VIAGRA-COX 541 20:51 U A

   A3736 BC-SMOKER-COX 255 20:51 U A

   A3733 BC-INDIA-HEAT-COX 955 20:49 U A

   A3732 BC-BAPTISTS-COX 214 20:49 U A

   A3728 BC-KAN-GRAIN-ELEVATOR-NYT 905 20:47 U A

   3 MORE VICTIMS OF GRAIN ELEVATOR BLAST ARE FOUND

   A3724 BC-WIS-SCHOOL-VOUCHERS-2NDTAKE-NYT 1117 20:44 U A

   UNDATED: to participate.

   A3722 BC-WIS-SCHOOL-VOUCHERS-700(2TAKES)-NYT 479 20:44 U A

   (ATTN: Ohio, Ariz. Vt., Maine)

   A3721 BC-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-SPI 1121 20:43 U A

   STUDY: CONSERVATION PLANS OFTEN BASED ON SHAKY SCIENCE,
UNCERTAINTY

   A3719 BC-CHRONICLE-TEST-HNS 49 20:42 U A

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3689 BC-AIRBAG-HOAX-TEX 679 20:21 R A

   REPORT THAT SLIM JIM ACTIVATES SIDE AIR BAG CAUSES SCARE AMONG
POLICE

   A3688 BC-EXP-HOBOKEN-CROONER-NYT 420 20:21 U A

   HOBOKEN'S OTHER ITALIAN-AMERICAN CROONER GETS HIS DUE

   A3674 BC-HOBOKEN-CROONER-ART-NYT 1118 20:11 U A

   HOBOKEN'S OTHER CROONER MAY FINALLY GET HIS TURN TO SHINE

   A3668 BC-SCI-TB-GENE-NYT 1166 20:07 U A

   SCIENTISTS CRACK GENETIC CODE OF TUBERCULOSIS BACTERIUM

   A3662 BC-TEST-TEX 13 20:04 U A

   EDITORS:

   A3656 BC-OBIT-MCCARTY-NYT 623 20:02 U A

   (ATTN: Miss., Mich., Ga.)

   A3587 BC-OBIT-GREEN-500&AMP;ADD-NYT 1048 19:33 U A

   MARSHALL GREEN, 82, DIPLOMAT AND EXPERT ON EAST ASIA

   A3551 BC-RACIAL-ATTACK-BUSH-HNS 413 19:21 U A

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3549 BC-ASIA-CRISIS-SPI 720 19:20 R A

   ASIA'S ECONOMIC CRISIS COULD IMPACT INTERNATIONAL SECURITY

   A3524 BC-BUSH-MILLIONAIRE-HNS 217 19:12 U A

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3514 BC-ELIMINATE-BAPTISTS-REACT-NYT 35 19:09 U A

   (pr)

   A3507 BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT 286 19:08 U A

   A3491 BC-TRANSPLANTED-FALCONS-HNS 606 19:02 U A

   FALCON MAKES COMEBACK, WITH HELP FROM IDAHO

   A3482 BC-ATHLETES-HEART-KAN 872 18:59 R A

   YOUNG ATHLETES AREN'T GETTING THE THOROUGH SCREENING THAT CAN
DETECT HEART DISEA

   A3471 BC-CANCER-COX 536 18:53 U A

   A3452 BC-SCHOOL-STANDARDS-HNS 729 18:42 U A

   NEW YORK RECOMMENDS MORE READING FOR STUDENTS

   A3410 BC-SUICIDE-BARRIER-HNS 526 18:23 U A

   SAN FRANCISCO CONSIDERS SUICIDE BARRIER FOR GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE

   A3372 BC-CIR-GEEK-NOTES-NYT 1431 18:09 U A

   GEEK NOTES: Amazon Offering CD Music; Offerings of Y2K Fixes;
Nader Weighs In on

   A3363 BC-WEATHER-MAP-NYT 425 18:06 U A

   WEATHER

   A3360 BC-CIR-DVDD-DIVX-2DTAKE-NYT 400 18:04 U A

   UNDATED: early 80s.

   A3358 BC-CIR-DVDD-DIVX-ART-2TAKES-NYT 1062 18:03 U A

   (Circuits)

   A3320 BC-CIR-DEFACING-WINDOWS-NYT 968 17:45 U A

   MY OWN PERSONAL ANTITRUST ACTION

   A3310 BC-EDISON-CONTROVERSY-HNS 413 17:40 R A

   PROPOSAL TO PRIVATIZE PUBLIC SCHOOL DRAWS CRITICISM

   A3267 BC-CYBERSEX-HNS 546 17:25 U A

   SURVEY FINDS LITTLE HARM IN SURFING FOR CYBERSEX

   A3255 BC-CIR-Q&AMP;A-NYT 319 17:22 U A

   Q &AMP; A: SPEED LIMITS ON MODEMS

   A3244 BC-SCI-QUESTIONS-BOS 647 17:18 U A

   Resending for all needing

   A3236 BC-CIR-MATH-GAMES-2NDTAKE-NYT 915 17:15 U A

   UNDATED: second chances.

   A3231 BC-CIR-MATH-GAMES-2TAKES-NYT 1291 17:12 U A

   GAMES ADD FUN TO SUMMER MATH PRACTICE

   A3225 BC-CIR-WEB-FILTERS-ART-NYT 647 17:10 U A

   (Attn: Miss., Mass.)

   A3226 BC-CIR-JAVA-NYT 437 17:11 U A

   LANGUAGE CALLED JAVA TRANSCENDS BARRIERS

   A3217 BC-CIR-GAMES-E3-NYT 1108 17:04 U A

   IN THE HEADLIGHTS: PDAs AND VIRTUAL PETS

   A3213 BC-DISASTER-AID-HNS 734 17:02 U A

   STATES EXPLORE ALTERNATIVES TO FEDERAL DISASTER RELIEF

   A3207 BC-NY-CATSKILLS-COMIC-ART-NYT 922 16:58 U A

   TUMULT OVER WHO IS KING OF `SIMON SAYS' GAME

   A3164 BC-CIR-DIGITAL-TYRO-NYT 999 16:41 U A

   LEAPING CENTURIES IN A SINGLE STEP, A MINIMALIST GOES DIGITAL

   A3157 BC-CIR-ONLINE-EVENING-ART-NYT 742 16:38 U A

   (Attn: N.Y.)

   A3142 BC-CIR-EYESTRAIN-CARE-NYT 411 16:32 U A

   COMPUTER MONITOR NEED NOT TAKE A TOLL ON THE EYES

   A3131 BC-CIR-CONDUCTORS-JACKET-ART-NYT 551 16:26 U A

   (Attn: Mass.)

   A3129 BC-CIR-MOLECULE-MUSIC-NYT 560 16:25 U A

   (Attn: Ky.)

   A3127 BC-CIR-DIGITAL-CAMERAS-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 1066 16:24 U A

   UNDATED: color photograph.

   A3124 BC-CIR-DIGITAL-CAMERAS-ART-2TAKES-NYT 1237 16:21 U A

   (Attn: Mass., Texas)

   A3121 BC-FEATURE-BUDGET-ART-BOS 518 16:20 U A

   ART ADV.: Photos with HOOD-BOY are being transmitted to NYT
Photo Service subscr

   A3118 BC-CIR-EYESTRAIN-ART-2TAKES-NYT 902 16:17 U A

   (Attn: Ala., Minn., N.Y., Va., Calif.)

   A3119 BC-CIR-EYESTRAIN-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 611 16:18 U A

   UNDATED: a problem.''

   A3108 BC-CIR-EYESTRAIN-GLASSES-NYT 310 16:14 U A

   CHOOSING EYEGLASSES

   A3089 BC-ELIMINATE-CIR-FINANCIAL-SOFTWARE-NYT 43 16:08 U A

   (pr)

   A3082 BC-ELIMINATE-CIR-DIGITAL-DARKROOM-NYT 36 16:07 U A

   (pr)

   A2932 BC-SCIENCE-NYT-BUDGET 158 15:11 U A

   A2904 BC-CIRCUITS-BUDGET-NYT 456 15:00 U A

   (Repeating to tag stories with art notes)

   A2893 BC-CIRCUITS-BUDGET-NYT 430 14:57 U A

   A2869 BC-GRAPHICS-EARLY-BUDGET-NYT 307 14:45 U A

   A2803 BC-BC-WORLD-FRI-AMs-KAN 348 14:08 R A

   BILL'S WORLD &QC;

   A2770 BC-MARRY-YEARS-BOS 1172 13:52 U A

   A LOVE STORY OF GLOBE-SPANNING, BLINDNESS AND LONG ABSENCE

   A2763 BC-MENTAL-CARE-BOS 769 13:51 U A

   FOR-PROFIT MENTAL HEALTH SYSTEM HAS ITS CRITICS

   A2660 BC-NODATE-SIDE1-AZR 409 13:18 R A

   COUPLE FOLLOWED TRADITIONAL MUSLIM RULES

   A2580 BC-NEW-TREATMENT-FOR-SNAKEBITES-(NEW-SCIENTIST)-NYTSF 616
13:04 R A

   SNAKEBITES MAY NO LONGER NEED RADICAL PLASTIC SURGERY

   A2566 BC-CPT-NETNEWS-NYT 682 13:00 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2561 BC-CPT-online-ads-cox 1239 12:57 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2557 BC-CPT-NETSCAPE-BARKSDALE-BLOOM 761 12:54 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2556 BC-CPT-NETWORK-ASSOCIATES-BLOOM 768 12:54 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2553 BC-CPT-COMPAQ-HOME-PCS-BLOOM 780 12:52 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2554 BC-CPT-GATEWAY-VP-BLOOM 213 12:52 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2551 BC-CPT-DIGITAL-NET-LADN 927 12:50 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2549 BC-CPT-INTEL-FTC-BLOOM 952 12:49 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2546 BC-CPT-INTERNET-FCC-BLOOM 730 12:48 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2544 BC-CPT-SAMSUNG10-COX 435 12:47 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2541 BC-CPT-CYBERSCENE10-COX 621 12:45 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2542 BC-CPT-MOTOROLA10-COX 358 12:45 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2539 BC-CPT-MACNEWS10-COX 552 12:43 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2536 BC-CPT-JUSTFORFUN10-COX 676 12:41 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2534 BC-CPT-CNET-NBC-BLOOM 650 12:40 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2535 BC-CPT-TECHTOOLS10-COX 621 12:41 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2533 BC-CPT-INTERWEB-COX 1439 12:39 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2530 BC-CPT-LUCENT-SUN-BLOOM 511 12:38 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2529 BC-CPT-MICROSOFT-ANTITRUST-SPI 731 12:37 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2526 BC-CPT-DATA-ENCRYPT-NYT 409 12:36 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2524 BC-CPT-ENCRYPTION-STANDOFF-SFCHRON 414 12:35 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2525 BC-CPT-SEMICONDUCTOR-SALES-SLUMP-BLOOM 434 12:36 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2522 BC-CPT-CNET-SFCHRON 692 12:34 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2523 BC-CPT-DIGITAL-SFCHRON 704 12:35 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2520 BC-CPT-IBM-CUSTOM-CHIPS-BLOOM 351 12:34 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2521 BC-CPT-NETWORK-SFCHRON 522 12:34 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2518 BC-CPT-MICROSOFT-TRIAL-BLOOM 460 12:33 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2519 BC-CPT-MICROSOFT-DOCUMENTS-BLOOM 241 12:33 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2517 BC-CPT-PIXEL-MYSPACE-SPI 958 12:32 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2514 BC-CPT-AMERICA-ONLINE-BLOOM 456 12:31 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2512 BC-CPT-ONLINE-JOBS-2takes-LADN 930 12:30 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2513 BC-CPT-ONLINE-JOBS-2ndtake-LADN 416 12:31 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2508 BC-CPT-FLASH-SFCHRON 537 12:27 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2509 BC-CPT-DIGITAL-SFCHRON 723 12:28 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2506 BC-CPT-WEB-MARKETING09-COX 782 12:26 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2507 BC-CPT-AOL-MIRABILIS-NYT 836 12:27 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2504 BC-CPT-SKY-HIGHTECH-LADN 1248 12:24 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2500 BC-CPT-CYBERSCENE10-COX 621 12:23 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2495 BC-CPT-NETWATCH08-COX 635 12:22 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2499 BC-CPT-NETWATCH09-COX 536 12:23 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2492 BC-CPT-NETWORK-ASSOCIATES-BLOOM 507 12:21 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2489 BC-CPT-NETNEWS-NYT 682 12:20 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2481 BC-CPT-INTEL-PRICE-ART-300&AMP;ADD-NYT 526 12:19 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2485 BC-CPT-INTEL-FTC-675&AMP;ADD-NYT 1079 12:19 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2479 BC-CPT-INTEL-AZR 867 12:18 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2476 BC-CPT-INTELMS-SFCHRON 747 12:17 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2474 BC-CPT-INTEL-DEFENSE-ASSESS-NYT 921 12:16 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2471 BC-CPT-SCI-COMPUTER-COLUMN-NYT 1054 12:13 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2472 BC-CPT-INTEL-FUJITSU-BLOOM 460 12:14 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2469 BC-CPT-COMPUTER-LEARNING-BLOOM 503 12:13 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2462 BC-CPT-COMPUTERQ&AMP;A-SFCHRON 784 12:10 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2457 BC-CPT-CHIPS-MARKETPLACE-NYT 874 12:08 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2458 BC-CPT-FUTURESTEP-MEDIA-NYT 399 12:09 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2453 BC-CPT-NEW-DESKTOP-SOFTWARE-485&AMP;ADD-NYT 971 12:07 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2450 BC-CPT-TV-NEWSVIEWERS-MEDIA-ART-525&AMP;ADD-NYT 786 12:05 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2447 BC-CPT-SCHWABSITE-CHINESE-SFCHRON 488 12:03 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2448 BC-CPT-CISCO-COMPETE-NYT 942 12:03 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2445 BC-CPT-IBM-EQUIFAX-BLOOM 258 12:02 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2446 BC-CPT-LOTUS-VERITY-SETTLEMENT-BLOOM 215 12:03 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2443 BC-CPT-MICROSOFT-BROWSER-BLOOM 282 12:02 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2444 BC-CPT-BROWN-COMPUTER-COLUMN-NYT 323 12:02 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2441 BC-CPT-INTEL-SAP-JAPAN-BLOOM 295 12:01 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2442 BC-CPT-IBM-NETFINITY-BLOOM 267 12:02 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2438 BC-CPT-PRIVACY-INTERNET-BOS 945 12:00 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2440 BC-CPT-PRIVACY-INTERNET-550&AMP;ADD-NYT 883 12:01 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2435 BC-CPT-INTERNET-SFCHRON 716 11:59 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2433 BC-CPT-FEA-FBN-INTERNET-PIONEER-BLOOM 823 11:57 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2431 BC-CPT-INTERNET-DOMAINS-BLOOM 556 11:57 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2429 BC-CPT-INTERNET-CLINTON-BLOOM 618 11:54 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2427 BC-CPT-COMPUTER-PORN-HNS 1394 11:51 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; NATIONAL &LR;  stories and general ADVISORIES that
moved Wednesday, June 10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y.
Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   ADVISORIES

   A4124 PM-BUDGET-NYT 1608 00:02 U V

   (th)

   A3900 BC-R-HEALTH-ADVISORY-NYT 721 22:47 U V

   (ATTENTION: Managing editors, feature editors, health editors)

   A3853 BC-ELIMINATE-RECAP-NYT 94 22:11 U V

   A3850 BC-NYT-CORRECTIONS 347 22:09 U V

   NEW YORK TIMES CORRECTIONS FOR THURSDAY, JUNE 11

   A3829 BC-GRAPHICS-FILES 169 21:59 U V

   A3817 BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT 1851 21:50 U V

   A3776 BC-SPOT-BJT-WEEKEND-0613 767 21:19 U V

   A3775 BC-SPOT-BUDGET-BOS 220 21:18 U V

   For Release THURSDAY AMs, June 11, 1998

   A3711 BC-COX-BJT-ADVISORY-EELS 49 20:38 U V

   A3712 BC-AZR-BUDGET-AZR 34 20:39 U V

   (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)

   A3706 BC-AZR-BUDGET-AZR 138 20:34 U V

   (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)

   A3654 BC-TIMES-EXPRESS-BUDGET-NYT 805 20:00 U V

   (pr)

   A3651 BC-AZR-BUDGET-AZR 740 19:57 U V

   (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)

   A3650 BC-AZR-BUDGET-AZR 158 19:57 U V

   (For use by N.Y. Times News Service clients)

   A3636 BC-LADN-BUDGET 197 19:50 U V

   The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following general
stories for u

   A3638 BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-2NDLD-WRITETHRU-HNS 1007 19:50 U V

   Wednesday, June 10, 1998

   A3634 BC-FRONTPAGE-NYT 819 19:49 U V

   (pr)

   A3596 BC-FINFRONTS-NYT 555 19:37 U V

   (lb)

   A3582 BC-BUDGET-SPOT-SPI 742 19:31 U V

   The Seattle Post-Intelligencer plans to move the following
stories for clien

   A3571 BC-EARLY-FRONTPAGE-NYT 585 19:28 U V

   (pr)

   A3500 BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT 286 19:06 U V

   A3484 BC-BC-KAN-BUDGET-KAN 101 19:01 R V

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3456 NYTR-BUDGET-11-AM-CYCLE 2331 18:44 U V

   A3445 BC-SPOT-BJT-THURSDAY 0611 1STLEDE 1279 18:36 U V

   A3374 BC-TEXBUDGET-TEX 770 18:11 U V

   The Fort Worth Star-Telegram plans to move the following stories
for clients

   A3364 BC-BUSINESS-BJT11-COX 641 18:07 R V

   A3365 BC-SPORTS-BJT11-COX 336 18:07 R V

   A3136 AM-PAGE1-CONSIDER-NYT 502 16:30 U V

   Here are the stories New York Times editors are considering for
Page 1, Thurs

   A3105 BC-FEATURE-BUDGET-ART-BOS 518 16:14 U V

   ART ADV.: Photos with HOOD-BOY are being transmitted to NYT
Photo Service subscr

   A3091 BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-1STLD-WRITETHRU-HNS 817 16:08 U V

   Wednesday, June 10, 1998

   A3031 BC-SUNDAY-UPDATE-BUDGET-NYT 981 15:37 U V

   A2993 AM-ADD-NYT-BUDGET 1151 15:23 U V

   A2862 BC-SPOT-BJT-THURSDAY 0611 936 14:39 U V

   A2828 AM-NYT-BUDGET 1368 14:23 U V

   (gm)

   A2813 BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-HNS 391 14:15 U V

   Wednesday, June 10, 1998

   A2698 BC-BUDGET-FEATURE-SPI 300 13:23 R V

   The Seattle Post-Intelligencer plans to move the following
stories for clien

   A2430 NYTR-PHOTO-BUDGET 2374 11:55 R V

   A2415 BC-HEARST-FEATURE-BUDGET-HNS 903 11:44 U V

   Wednesday, June 10, 1998

   A2391 BC-FEATURES-BJT11-COX 867 11:26 R V

   A2389 BC-COMMENTARY-BJT11-COX 339 11:25 R V

   A2201 BC-GREETINGS-NYT 162 07:35 U V

   EDITORS:

   NATIONAL GENERAL

   A4174 BC-INTERNET-MOLESTER-SENTENCED-LADN 473 01:19 R A

   ONLINE MOLESTER GETS 18 MONTHS IN PRISON FOR LURING GIRL ON
INTERNET

   A4167 BC-BOB-HOPE-KNIGHTED-LADN 575 01:14 R A

   BOB HOPE, WIFE RECEIVE PAPAL TITLES

   A4112 BC-OBIT-YEZZO-NYT 733 23:35 U A

   RICHARD YEZZO, 46, CREATOR OF AIDS CENTER

   A4109 BC-NUNS-AZR 827 23:31 R A

   SISTERS OF NO MERCY GIVE HECK TO FOES OF PHOENIX WNBA TEAM

   A4108 BC-NUNS-AZR 827 23:30 R A

   SISTERS OF NO MERCY GIVE HECK TO FOES OF PHOENIX WNBA TEAM

   A4107 BC-MONTINI-COL-AZR 664 23:30 R A

   SYSTEM NOT AT FAULT IN TEEN KILLINGS

   A4104 BC-OBIT-CAHAN-NYT 151 23:29 U A

   MARY ARNOLD CAHAN, MUSEUM ASSOCIATE, DIES AT 71

   A4102 BC-MONTINI-COL-AZR 664 23:28 R A

   SYSTEM NOT AT FAULT IN TEEN KILLINGS

   A4103 BC-TEXAS-HATE-JESSE-COX 809 23:29 U A

   A4092 BC-NY-NIGHTCLUB-BEATING-NYT 506 23:21 U A

   NEW LAWYER FOR DEFENDANT IN BEATING CASE

   A4089 BC-NY-POLICE-RECRUITS-NYT 644 23:13 U A

   COUNCIL SIDES WITH OLDER POLICE CANDIDATES

   A4087 BC-NY-FIREFIGHTER-BRAWL 329 23:11 U A

   INQUIRY HAS NO SUSPECTS IN FIREFIGHTER BRAWL

   A3956 BC-NY-LILCO-NYT 511 23:00 U A

   MERGED POWER COMPANY IS GETTING OFF TO A ROCKY START

   A3948 BC-PUBLIC-LIVES-NYT 650 22:59 U A

   A QUEEN RETAINS STAR APPEAL

   A3906 BC-NY-UPS-THEFT-NYT 707 22:52 U A

   6 DRIVERS CHARGED IN THEFTS FROM UPS

   A3905 BC-CASTLE-COX 956 22:51 U A

   A3904 BC-TEXAS-HATE-COURT-COX 625 22:50 U A

   A3894 BC-NY-METROCARD-NYT 658 22:42 U A

   LOW-COST METROCARD MIGHT BE SOLD ONLY TO TOURISTS

   A3893 BC-RACIAL-ATTACK-JACKSON-HNS 911 22:40 U A

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3891 BC-SCI-TB-GENE-1STLD-WRITETHRU-NYT 1197 22:38 U A

   (EDS: Corrects spelling style of Sanger Center, sted Centre
throughout. Changes

   A3884 BC-NY-FOSTER-PROFILE-NYT 946 22:32 U A

   AGENCY DIRECTOR KNOWS THE NEEDS OF CHILDREN HARDLY CHANGE

   A3881 BC-NY-CITY-UNIV-SEARCH-435&AMP;ADD-NYT 792 22:30 U A

   (ATTN: N.M., Calif., W.Va., Ala.)

   A3882 BC-EXP-EMPLOYEE-AIRFARES-NYT 391 22:31 U A

   GM, CHRYSLER TO RETAIN AIRLINE FOR UNLIMITED EMPLOYEE TRAVEL

   A3878 BC-SKINNYDIP-AZR 632 22:27 R A

   BARE-BONES REALIST WELCOMES NEIGHBORS AT NUDIST RESORT

   A3879 BC-RACIAL-ATTACK-SUSPECTS-HNS 1405 22:28 U A

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3874 BC-JASPER-MOOD-TEX 1086 22:22 R A

   EAST TEXAS TOWN TRYING TO COME TO GRIPS WITH SLAYING

   A3868 BC-NY-FIREFIGHTER-FUNERAL-ART-NYT 731 22:20 U A

   FALLEN FIREFIGHTER IS BURIED IN FARMINGDALE

   A3867 BC-TWA-SEX-HARASS-215&AMP;ADD-NYT 651 22:20 U A

   EEOC SUES TWA OVER SEXUAL HARASSMENT CHARGES

   A3861 BC-EXP-FAT-SUBSTITUTE-FLAWS-NYT 341 22:15 U A

   RESEARCHER WARNS OF FUTURE EFFECTS OF FAT SUBSTITUTE

   A3860 BC-QUOTE-OF-THE-DAY-NYT 121 22:15 R A

   QUOTATION OF THE DAY

   A3857 BC-NY-UTILITY-EXEC-500&AMP;ADD-NYT 1142 22:13 U A

   UTILITY HEAD'S SEVERANCE PACKAGE TERMED `OUTRAGEOUS'

   A3856 BC-GOP-TEXAS-TEX 910 22:12 R A

   PLANK ON ABORTION EXPECTED AT TEXAS GOP CONVENTION

   A3852 BC-NY-DEATH-JUROR-NYT 1224 22:10 U A

   JUROR EXPLAINS TORTUOUS PATH TO VOTING FOR DEATH SENTENCE

   A3848 BC-EXP-INTERNET-SCHOOLS-NYT 337 22:09 U A

   CUTS POSSIBLE IN ONLINE PLAN FOR SCHOOLS AND LIBRARIES

   A3847 BC-NYC-BUDGET-265&AMP;ADD-NYT 1046 22:08 U A

   GIULIANI CUTS $196 MILLION FROM NYC BUDGET; VALLONE FOWS FIGHT

   A3844 BC-NY-POLICE-COMPLAINTS-NYT 305 22:07 U A

   COMPLAINTS AGAINST NEW YORK POLICE RISE

   A3838 BC-EXP-TEXAS-DRAGGING-DEATH-NYT 334 22:04 U A

   REACTION TO HORRIBLE CRIME: SADNESS, SHOCK, SILENCE

   A3837 BC-TEXAS-DRAGGING-DEATH-NYT 890 22:04 U A

   REACTION TO HORRIBLE CRIME: SADNESS, SHOCK, SILENCE

   A3833 BC-FAT-SUBSTITUTE-FLAWS-NYT 846 22:01 U A

   (ATTN: Mass., Ore.)

   A3830 BC-GRAPHICS-FILES 169 21:59 U A

   A3826 BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT 1851 21:57 U A

   A3818 BC-LEAH-PERSONALS-SFCHRON 766 21:51 R A

   (Eds: This story also moved in the ``l'' lifestyle file)

   A3814 BC-EXP-SCI-GIANT-SQUID-NYT 344 21:46 U A

   `SQUIDZILLA' ARRIVES IN MANHATTAN

   A3808 BC-EXP-GM-STRIKE-NYT 427 21:43 U A

   SEVERAL PLANTS CLOSE BECAUSE OF GM STRIKE

   A3805 BC-EXP-FED-GREENSPAN-NYT 395 21:40 U A

   GREENSPAN CALLS ECONOMY `AS IMPRESSIVE AS ANY' HE'S SEEN

   A3803 BC-SAN-FRAN-AIRPORT-275&AMP;ADD-NYT 1087 21:38 U A

   SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT UNDERGOES MAJOR OVERHAUL

   A3802 BC-EXP-DUNKIN-THIEF-NYT 301 21:37 U A

   COPS GRAB DUNKIN' DONUTS ROBBERY SUSPECT NAMED DUNCAN

   A3798 BC-SCI-GIANT-SQUID-ART-511&AMP;ADD-NYT 1126 21:35 U A

   (ATTN: New Zealand)

   A3793 BC-EXP-WIS-SCHOOL-VOUCHERS-NYT 415 21:31 U A

   WISCONSIN COURT BACKS STATE MONEY FOR PRIVATE SCHOOLS

   A3791 BC-EXP-TOBACCO-TRIAL-NYT 343 21:31 U A

   JURY AWARDS $450,000 TO FAMILY OF DEAD SMOKER

   A3787 BC-EXP-TOBACCO-MARRIAGE-NYT 398 21:30 U A

   MARRIAGE-TAX AMENDMENT MOVES ANTI-SMOKING BILL ALONG IN SENATE

   A3785 BC-BAPTISTS-TEX 727 21:28 R A

   FALWELL PROCLAIMS HIMSELF FULL-FLEDGED SOUTHERN BAPTIST

   A3781 BC-EXP-CHINA-CLINTON-BOOK-NYT 341 21:24 U A

   CHINA BANS BOOK THAT DETAILS CLINTON SEX SCANDALS

   A3780 BC-SPOT-BUDGET-BOS 220 21:23 U A

   For Release THURSDAY AMs, June 11, 1998

   A3779 BC-EXP-RUSSIA-IMF-NYT 353 21:22 U A

   IMF DEMANDS IMPROVEMENTS IN RUSSIAN ECONOMY

   A3777 BC-OBIT-DENT-NYT 521 21:20 U A

   (ATTN.: La., Ga., N.Y., Calif.)

   A3773 BC-TAXBREAKS-EDUC-NYT 656 21:17 U A

   (ATTN: Ga., N.J.)

   A3769 BC-DUNKIN-THIEF-NYT 367 21:15 U A

   COPS SEIZE DUNKIN' DONUTS ROBBERY SUSPECT NAMED DUNCAN

   A3764 BC-NY-HOTEL-PRICES-580&AMP;ADD-NYT 1229 21:10 U A

   STAYING IN MANHATTAN: EXPENSIVE PROPOSITION

   A3759 BC-TOBACCO-TRIAL-NYT 1087 21:06 U A

   (ATTN: Calif., Ky., Fla., Minn., Mass.)

   A3757 BC-SOUTHERN-BAPTISTS-HNS 1036 21:05 U A

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3755 BC-EXP-SCI-TB-GENE-NYT 457 21:04 U A

   SCIENTISTS CRACK GENETIC CODE OF TUBERCULOSIS BACTERIUM

   A3748 BC-NJ-COCAINE-SEIZURE-ART-NYT 455 20:57 U A

   (ATTN: Brazil)

   A3747 BC-EXP-KAN-GRAIN-ELEVATOR-NYT 253 20:57 U A

   3 MORE VICTIMS OF GRAIN ELEVATOR BLAST ARE FOUND

   A3746 BC-R-KAN-GRAIN-ELEVATOR-ART-NYT 938 20:56 U A

   (Repeating to add art note)

   A3743 BC-EXP-TOBACCO-LOTT-NYT 376 20:55 U A

   SENATE GOP LEADER WALKS TOBACCO TIGHTROPE

   A3737 BC-VIAGRA-COX 541 20:51 U A

   A3736 BC-SMOKER-COX 255 20:51 U A

   A3733 BC-INDIA-HEAT-COX 955 20:49 U A

   A3732 BC-BAPTISTS-COX 214 20:49 U A

   A3728 BC-KAN-GRAIN-ELEVATOR-NYT 905 20:47 U A

   3 MORE VICTIMS OF GRAIN ELEVATOR BLAST ARE FOUND

   A3724 BC-WIS-SCHOOL-VOUCHERS-2NDTAKE-NYT 1117 20:44 U A

   UNDATED: to participate.

   A3722 BC-WIS-SCHOOL-VOUCHERS-700(2TAKES)-NYT 479 20:44 U A

   (ATTN: Ohio, Ariz. Vt., Maine)

   A3721 BC-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-SPI 1121 20:43 U A

   STUDY: CONSERVATION PLANS OFTEN BASED ON SHAKY SCIENCE,
UNCERTAINTY

   A3719 BC-CHRONICLE-TEST-HNS 49 20:42 U A

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3689 BC-AIRBAG-HOAX-TEX 679 20:21 R A

   REPORT THAT SLIM JIM ACTIVATES SIDE AIR BAG CAUSES SCARE AMONG
POLICE

   A3688 BC-EXP-HOBOKEN-CROONER-NYT 420 20:21 U A

   HOBOKEN'S OTHER ITALIAN-AMERICAN CROONER GETS HIS DUE

   A3674 BC-HOBOKEN-CROONER-ART-NYT 1118 20:11 U A

   HOBOKEN'S OTHER CROONER MAY FINALLY GET HIS TURN TO SHINE

   A3668 BC-SCI-TB-GENE-NYT 1166 20:07 U A

   SCIENTISTS CRACK GENETIC CODE OF TUBERCULOSIS BACTERIUM

   A3662 BC-TEST-TEX 13 20:04 U A

   EDITORS:

   A3656 BC-OBIT-MCCARTY-NYT 623 20:02 U A

   (ATTN: Miss., Mich., Ga.)

   A3587 BC-OBIT-GREEN-500&AMP;ADD-NYT 1048 19:33 U A

   MARSHALL GREEN, 82, DIPLOMAT AND EXPERT ON EAST ASIA

   A3551 BC-RACIAL-ATTACK-BUSH-HNS 413 19:21 U A

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3549 BC-ASIA-CRISIS-SPI 720 19:20 R A

   ASIA'S ECONOMIC CRISIS COULD IMPACT INTERNATIONAL SECURITY

   A3524 BC-BUSH-MILLIONAIRE-HNS 217 19:12 U A

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3514 BC-ELIMINATE-BAPTISTS-REACT-NYT 35 19:09 U A

   (pr)

   A3507 BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT 286 19:08 U A

   A3491 BC-TRANSPLANTED-FALCONS-HNS 606 19:02 U A

   FALCON MAKES COMEBACK, WITH HELP FROM IDAHO

   A3482 BC-ATHLETES-HEART-KAN 872 18:59 R A

   YOUNG ATHLETES AREN'T GETTING THE THOROUGH SCREENING THAT CAN
DETECT HEART DISEA

   A3471 BC-CANCER-COX 536 18:53 U A

   A3452 BC-SCHOOL-STANDARDS-HNS 729 18:42 U A

   NEW YORK RECOMMENDS MORE READING FOR STUDENTS

   A3410 BC-SUICIDE-BARRIER-HNS 526 18:23 U A

   SAN FRANCISCO CONSIDERS SUICIDE BARRIER FOR GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE

   A3372 BC-CIR-GEEK-NOTES-NYT 1431 18:09 U A

   GEEK NOTES: Amazon Offering CD Music; Offerings of Y2K Fixes;
Nader Weighs In on

   A3363 BC-WEATHER-MAP-NYT 425 18:06 U A

   WEATHER

   A3360 BC-CIR-DVDD-DIVX-2DTAKE-NYT 400 18:04 U A

   UNDATED: early 80s.

   A3358 BC-CIR-DVDD-DIVX-ART-2TAKES-NYT 1062 18:03 U A

   (Circuits)

   A3320 BC-CIR-DEFACING-WINDOWS-NYT 968 17:45 U A

   MY OWN PERSONAL ANTITRUST ACTION

   A3310 BC-EDISON-CONTROVERSY-HNS 413 17:40 R A

   PROPOSAL TO PRIVATIZE PUBLIC SCHOOL DRAWS CRITICISM

   A3267 BC-CYBERSEX-HNS 546 17:25 U A

   SURVEY FINDS LITTLE HARM IN SURFING FOR CYBERSEX

   A3255 BC-CIR-Q&AMP;A-NYT 319 17:22 U A

   Q &AMP; A: SPEED LIMITS ON MODEMS

   A3244 BC-SCI-QUESTIONS-BOS 647 17:18 U A

   Resending for all needing

   A3236 BC-CIR-MATH-GAMES-2NDTAKE-NYT 915 17:15 U A

   UNDATED: second chances.

   A3231 BC-CIR-MATH-GAMES-2TAKES-NYT 1291 17:12 U A

   GAMES ADD FUN TO SUMMER MATH PRACTICE

   A3225 BC-CIR-WEB-FILTERS-ART-NYT 647 17:10 U A

   (Attn: Miss., Mass.)

   A3226 BC-CIR-JAVA-NYT 437 17:11 U A

   LANGUAGE CALLED JAVA TRANSCENDS BARRIERS

   A3217 BC-CIR-GAMES-E3-NYT 1108 17:04 U A

   IN THE HEADLIGHTS: PDAs AND VIRTUAL PETS

   A3213 BC-DISASTER-AID-HNS 734 17:02 U A

   STATES EXPLORE ALTERNATIVES TO FEDERAL DISASTER RELIEF

   A3207 BC-NY-CATSKILLS-COMIC-ART-NYT 922 16:58 U A

   TUMULT OVER WHO IS KING OF `SIMON SAYS' GAME

   A3164 BC-CIR-DIGITAL-TYRO-NYT 999 16:41 U A

   LEAPING CENTURIES IN A SINGLE STEP, A MINIMALIST GOES DIGITAL

   A3157 BC-CIR-ONLINE-EVENING-ART-NYT 742 16:38 U A

   (Attn: N.Y.)

   A3142 BC-CIR-EYESTRAIN-CARE-NYT 411 16:32 U A

   COMPUTER MONITOR NEED NOT TAKE A TOLL ON THE EYES

   A3131 BC-CIR-CONDUCTORS-JACKET-ART-NYT 551 16:26 U A

   (Attn: Mass.)

   A3129 BC-CIR-MOLECULE-MUSIC-NYT 560 16:25 U A

   (Attn: Ky.)

   A3127 BC-CIR-DIGITAL-CAMERAS-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 1066 16:24 U A

   UNDATED: color photograph.

   A3124 BC-CIR-DIGITAL-CAMERAS-ART-2TAKES-NYT 1237 16:21 U A

   (Attn: Mass., Texas)

   A3121 BC-FEATURE-BUDGET-ART-BOS 518 16:20 U A

   ART ADV.: Photos with HOOD-BOY are being transmitted to NYT
Photo Service subscr

   A3118 BC-CIR-EYESTRAIN-ART-2TAKES-NYT 902 16:17 U A

   (Attn: Ala., Minn., N.Y., Va., Calif.)

   A3119 BC-CIR-EYESTRAIN-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 611 16:18 U A

   UNDATED: a problem.''

   A3108 BC-CIR-EYESTRAIN-GLASSES-NYT 310 16:14 U A

   CHOOSING EYEGLASSES

   A3089 BC-ELIMINATE-CIR-FINANCIAL-SOFTWARE-NYT 43 16:08 U A

   (pr)

   A3082 BC-ELIMINATE-CIR-DIGITAL-DARKROOM-NYT 36 16:07 U A

   (pr)

   A2932 BC-SCIENCE-NYT-BUDGET 158 15:11 U A

   A2904 BC-CIRCUITS-BUDGET-NYT 456 15:00 U A

   (Repeating to tag stories with art notes)

   A2893 BC-CIRCUITS-BUDGET-NYT 430 14:57 U A

   A2869 BC-GRAPHICS-EARLY-BUDGET-NYT 307 14:45 U A

   A2803 BC-BC-WORLD-FRI-AMs-KAN 348 14:08 R A

   BILL'S WORLD &QC;

   A2770 BC-MARRY-YEARS-BOS 1172 13:52 U A

   A LOVE STORY OF GLOBE-SPANNING, BLINDNESS AND LONG ABSENCE

   A2763 BC-MENTAL-CARE-BOS 769 13:51 U A

   FOR-PROFIT MENTAL HEALTH SYSTEM HAS ITS CRITICS

   A2660 BC-NODATE-SIDE1-AZR 409 13:18 R A

   COUPLE FOLLOWED TRADITIONAL MUSLIM RULES

   A2580 BC-NEW-TREATMENT-FOR-SNAKEBITES-(NEW-SCIENTIST)-NYTSF 616
13:04 R A

   SNAKEBITES MAY NO LONGER NEED RADICAL PLASTIC SURGERY

   A2566 BC-CPT-NETNEWS-NYT 682 13:00 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2561 BC-CPT-online-ads-cox 1239 12:57 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2557 BC-CPT-NETSCAPE-BARKSDALE-BLOOM 761 12:54 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2556 BC-CPT-NETWORK-ASSOCIATES-BLOOM 768 12:54 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2553 BC-CPT-COMPAQ-HOME-PCS-BLOOM 780 12:52 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2554 BC-CPT-GATEWAY-VP-BLOOM 213 12:52 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2551 BC-CPT-DIGITAL-NET-LADN 927 12:50 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2549 BC-CPT-INTEL-FTC-BLOOM 952 12:49 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2546 BC-CPT-INTERNET-FCC-BLOOM 730 12:48 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2544 BC-CPT-SAMSUNG10-COX 435 12:47 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2541 BC-CPT-CYBERSCENE10-COX 621 12:45 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2542 BC-CPT-MOTOROLA10-COX 358 12:45 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2539 BC-CPT-MACNEWS10-COX 552 12:43 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2536 BC-CPT-JUSTFORFUN10-COX 676 12:41 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2534 BC-CPT-CNET-NBC-BLOOM 650 12:40 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2535 BC-CPT-TECHTOOLS10-COX 621 12:41 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2533 BC-CPT-INTERWEB-COX 1439 12:39 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2530 BC-CPT-LUCENT-SUN-BLOOM 511 12:38 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2529 BC-CPT-MICROSOFT-ANTITRUST-SPI 731 12:37 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2526 BC-CPT-DATA-ENCRYPT-NYT 409 12:36 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2524 BC-CPT-ENCRYPTION-STANDOFF-SFCHRON 414 12:35 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2525 BC-CPT-SEMICONDUCTOR-SALES-SLUMP-BLOOM 434 12:36 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2522 BC-CPT-CNET-SFCHRON 692 12:34 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2523 BC-CPT-DIGITAL-SFCHRON 704 12:35 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2520 BC-CPT-IBM-CUSTOM-CHIPS-BLOOM 351 12:34 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2521 BC-CPT-NETWORK-SFCHRON 522 12:34 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2518 BC-CPT-MICROSOFT-TRIAL-BLOOM 460 12:33 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2519 BC-CPT-MICROSOFT-DOCUMENTS-BLOOM 241 12:33 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2517 BC-CPT-PIXEL-MYSPACE-SPI 958 12:32 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2514 BC-CPT-AMERICA-ONLINE-BLOOM 456 12:31 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2512 BC-CPT-ONLINE-JOBS-2takes-LADN 930 12:30 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2513 BC-CPT-ONLINE-JOBS-2ndtake-LADN 416 12:31 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2508 BC-CPT-FLASH-SFCHRON 537 12:27 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2509 BC-CPT-DIGITAL-SFCHRON 723 12:28 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2506 BC-CPT-WEB-MARKETING09-COX 782 12:26 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2507 BC-CPT-AOL-MIRABILIS-NYT 836 12:27 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2504 BC-CPT-SKY-HIGHTECH-LADN 1248 12:24 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2500 BC-CPT-CYBERSCENE10-COX 621 12:23 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2495 BC-CPT-NETWATCH08-COX 635 12:22 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2499 BC-CPT-NETWATCH09-COX 536 12:23 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2492 BC-CPT-NETWORK-ASSOCIATES-BLOOM 507 12:21 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2489 BC-CPT-NETNEWS-NYT 682 12:20 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2481 BC-CPT-INTEL-PRICE-ART-300&AMP;ADD-NYT 526 12:19 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2485 BC-CPT-INTEL-FTC-675&AMP;ADD-NYT 1079 12:19 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2479 BC-CPT-INTEL-AZR 867 12:18 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2476 BC-CPT-INTELMS-SFCHRON 747 12:17 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2474 BC-CPT-INTEL-DEFENSE-ASSESS-NYT 921 12:16 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2471 BC-CPT-SCI-COMPUTER-COLUMN-NYT 1054 12:13 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2472 BC-CPT-INTEL-FUJITSU-BLOOM 460 12:14 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2469 BC-CPT-COMPUTER-LEARNING-BLOOM 503 12:13 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2462 BC-CPT-COMPUTERQ&AMP;A-SFCHRON 784 12:10 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2457 BC-CPT-CHIPS-MARKETPLACE-NYT 874 12:08 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2458 BC-CPT-FUTURESTEP-MEDIA-NYT 399 12:09 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2453 BC-CPT-NEW-DESKTOP-SOFTWARE-485&AMP;ADD-NYT 971 12:07 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2450 BC-CPT-TV-NEWSVIEWERS-MEDIA-ART-525&AMP;ADD-NYT 786 12:05 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2447 BC-CPT-SCHWABSITE-CHINESE-SFCHRON 488 12:03 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2448 BC-CPT-CISCO-COMPETE-NYT 942 12:03 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2445 BC-CPT-IBM-EQUIFAX-BLOOM 258 12:02 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2446 BC-CPT-LOTUS-VERITY-SETTLEMENT-BLOOM 215 12:03 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2443 BC-CPT-MICROSOFT-BROWSER-BLOOM 282 12:02 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2444 BC-CPT-BROWN-COMPUTER-COLUMN-NYT 323 12:02 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2441 BC-CPT-INTEL-SAP-JAPAN-BLOOM 295 12:01 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2442 BC-CPT-IBM-NETFINITY-BLOOM 267 12:02 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2438 BC-CPT-PRIVACY-INTERNET-BOS 945 12:00 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2440 BC-CPT-PRIVACY-INTERNET-550&AMP;ADD-NYT 883 12:01 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2435 BC-CPT-INTERNET-SFCHRON 716 11:59 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2433 BC-CPT-FEA-FBN-INTERNET-PIONEER-BLOOM 823 11:57 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2431 BC-CPT-INTERNET-DOMAINS-BLOOM 556 11:57 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2429 BC-CPT-INTERNET-CLINTON-BLOOM 618 11:54 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

   A2427 BC-CPT-COMPUTER-PORN-HNS 1394 11:51 U A

   (Repeating as part of a weekly roundup of computer features)

'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0030 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 03:05 ',
			header: '
A4223 &Cx1f; taf-z
r p &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CAMPAIGN-SLUGLIST-CLO     06-11 0073
',
			slug: ' BC-CAMPAIGN-SLUGLIST-CLOSER ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; CAMPAIGN &LR;  stories that moved through 2:30
a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   CAMPAIGN

   A3859 BC-GOP-TEXAS-TEX 910 22:14 R P

   PLANK ON ABORTION EXPECTED AT TEXAS GOP CONVENTION

',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; CAMPAIGN &LR;  stories that moved through 2:30
a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   CAMPAIGN

   A3859 BC-GOP-TEXAS-TEX 910 22:14 R P

   PLANK ON ABORTION EXPECTED AT TEXAS GOP CONVENTION

'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0031 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 03:06 ',
			header: '
A4226 &Cx1f; taf-z
r w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-WASHINGTON-SLUGLIST-C     06-11 0510
',
			slug: ' BC-WASHINGTON-SLUGLIST-CLOSER ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; WASHINGTON &LR;  stories that moved Wednesday,
June 10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   WASHINGTON NEWS

   A4159 BC-TOBACCO-MARRIAGE-REPUBS-1STLD-NYT 576 01:00 U W

   (EDS: Subs to change wording in 4th graf to `annual' sted `gross
adjusted' incom

   A3877 BC-BANKRUPTCY-BILL-NYT 802 22:27 U W

   HOUSE PASSES BILL TO DISCOURAGE PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY

   A3858 BC-ELIMINATE-CAMPAIGN-FINANCE-NYT 35 22:14 U W

   (pr)

   A3846 BC-WHEAT-PAKISTAN-SPI 909 22:07 U W

   JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SAYS WHEAT MUST BE INCLUDED IN SANCTIONS

   A3792 BC-GUNS-RENO-HNS 608 21:31 U W

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3771 BC-TOBACCO-TAX-BOS 681 21:16 U W

   GOP ATTACHES TO TOBACCO BILL RELIEF FOR ``MARRIAGE PENALTY''

   A3772 BC-GUNS-RENO-HNS 608 21:17 U W

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3770 BC-INTERNET-SCHOOLS-NYT 545 21:15 U W

   (ATTN: Va., Mich., Ariz., S.C.)

   A3768 BC-TOBACCO-MARRIAGE-REPUBS-NYT 562 21:14 U W

   SUPPORT GAINS FOR ENDING MARRIAGE TAX PENALTY

   A3740 BC-FED-GREENSPAN-BOS 755 20:53 U W

   FED CHIEF EXPECTS ASIAN ECONOMIC WOES WILL COOL US ECONOMY

   A3738 BC-TOBACCO-BILL-HNS 828 20:52 U W

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3730 BC-CLINTON-STARR-542&AMP;ADD-NYT 731 20:48 U W

   LEWINSKY IMMUNITY DEAL SAID TO BE FAVORED BY BOTH SIDES

   A3729 BC-SHUSTER-PROBE-BOS 489 20:48 U W

   HOUSE PANEL DEFERS TO CRIMINAL PROBE OF REP. SHUSTER

   A3726 BC-TOBACCO-LOTT-ART-NYT 1239 20:45 U W

   (ATTN: Miss., Okla., Ohio, Ariz., Texas, Mo.)

   A3716 BC-CHRONICLE-TEST-HNS 49 20:40 U W

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3717 BC-GREENSPAN-ECONOMY-HNS 797 20:40 U W

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3714 BC-COX-TOBACCO-COX 998 20:39 U W

   520&AMP;ADD

   A3709 BC-TOBACCO-MARRIAGE-NYT 971 20:37 U W

   (ATTN: Mo., Texas, S.C., Fla., Vt., Mass., Maine, R.I.)

   A3630 BC-TOBACCO-TAX-CUT-COX 304 19:49 U W

   A3590 BC-BC-EDUCATION-SAVINGS-COX 647 19:35 U W

   A3589 BC-CLINTON-WAGES-HNS 598 19:34 U W

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3559 BC-SUMMER-LUNCH-COX 551 19:25 U W

   A3538 BC-SOFTWARE-ISSUES-COX 552 19:16 U W

   A3517 BC-DRUG-TRIALS-COX 826 19:09 U W

   A3462 BC-BC-CENSUS-GINGRICH-COX 753 18:49 U W

   A3307 BC-CLINTON-BAPTISTS-COX 302 17:38 U W

   A3275 BC-SOUTHKOREA-INVEST-HNS 759 17:28 U W

   PRESIDENT KIM MAKES SALES PITCH FOR INVESTMENT IN SOUTH KOREA

   A3232 BC-YEAR2000-INVESTORS-HNS 833 17:14 U W

   YEAR 2000 COMPUTER GLITCH COULD THREATEN MILLIONS OF INVESTORS

   A3151 BC-WOMEN-AWARDS-HNS 613 16:36 U W

   GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HONORS WOMEN FOR GOVERNMENT SERVICE

',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; WASHINGTON &LR;  stories that moved Wednesday,
June 10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   WASHINGTON NEWS

   A4159 BC-TOBACCO-MARRIAGE-REPUBS-1STLD-NYT 576 01:00 U W

   (EDS: Subs to change wording in 4th graf to `annual' sted `gross
adjusted' incom

   A3877 BC-BANKRUPTCY-BILL-NYT 802 22:27 U W

   HOUSE PASSES BILL TO DISCOURAGE PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY

   A3858 BC-ELIMINATE-CAMPAIGN-FINANCE-NYT 35 22:14 U W

   (pr)

   A3846 BC-WHEAT-PAKISTAN-SPI 909 22:07 U W

   JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SAYS WHEAT MUST BE INCLUDED IN SANCTIONS

   A3792 BC-GUNS-RENO-HNS 608 21:31 U W

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3771 BC-TOBACCO-TAX-BOS 681 21:16 U W

   GOP ATTACHES TO TOBACCO BILL RELIEF FOR ``MARRIAGE PENALTY''

   A3772 BC-GUNS-RENO-HNS 608 21:17 U W

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3770 BC-INTERNET-SCHOOLS-NYT 545 21:15 U W

   (ATTN: Va., Mich., Ariz., S.C.)

   A3768 BC-TOBACCO-MARRIAGE-REPUBS-NYT 562 21:14 U W

   SUPPORT GAINS FOR ENDING MARRIAGE TAX PENALTY

   A3740 BC-FED-GREENSPAN-BOS 755 20:53 U W

   FED CHIEF EXPECTS ASIAN ECONOMIC WOES WILL COOL US ECONOMY

   A3738 BC-TOBACCO-BILL-HNS 828 20:52 U W

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3730 BC-CLINTON-STARR-542&AMP;ADD-NYT 731 20:48 U W

   LEWINSKY IMMUNITY DEAL SAID TO BE FAVORED BY BOTH SIDES

   A3729 BC-SHUSTER-PROBE-BOS 489 20:48 U W

   HOUSE PANEL DEFERS TO CRIMINAL PROBE OF REP. SHUSTER

   A3726 BC-TOBACCO-LOTT-ART-NYT 1239 20:45 U W

   (ATTN: Miss., Okla., Ohio, Ariz., Texas, Mo.)

   A3716 BC-CHRONICLE-TEST-HNS 49 20:40 U W

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3717 BC-GREENSPAN-ECONOMY-HNS 797 20:40 U W

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3714 BC-COX-TOBACCO-COX 998 20:39 U W

   520&AMP;ADD

   A3709 BC-TOBACCO-MARRIAGE-NYT 971 20:37 U W

   (ATTN: Mo., Texas, S.C., Fla., Vt., Mass., Maine, R.I.)

   A3630 BC-TOBACCO-TAX-CUT-COX 304 19:49 U W

   A3590 BC-BC-EDUCATION-SAVINGS-COX 647 19:35 U W

   A3589 BC-CLINTON-WAGES-HNS 598 19:34 U W

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3559 BC-SUMMER-LUNCH-COX 551 19:25 U W

   A3538 BC-SOFTWARE-ISSUES-COX 552 19:16 U W

   A3517 BC-DRUG-TRIALS-COX 826 19:09 U W

   A3462 BC-BC-CENSUS-GINGRICH-COX 753 18:49 U W

   A3307 BC-CLINTON-BAPTISTS-COX 302 17:38 U W

   A3275 BC-SOUTHKOREA-INVEST-HNS 759 17:28 U W

   PRESIDENT KIM MAKES SALES PITCH FOR INVESTMENT IN SOUTH KOREA

   A3232 BC-YEAR2000-INVESTORS-HNS 833 17:14 U W

   YEAR 2000 COMPUTER GLITCH COULD THREATEN MILLIONS OF INVESTORS

   A3151 BC-WOMEN-AWARDS-HNS 613 16:36 U W

   GOOD HOUSEKEEPING HONORS WOMEN FOR GOVERNMENT SERVICE

'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0032 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 03:06 ',
			header: '
A4228 &Cx1f; taf-z
r i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-INTERNATIONAL-SLUGLIS     06-11 0958
',
			slug: ' BC-INTERNATIONAL-SLUGLIST-CLOSER ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   A2888 BC-MEXICO-REBELS-HNS 1094 14:54 U I

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A2753 BC-RUSSIA-TAXES-BOS 1174 13:44 U I

   GETTING RUSSIANS TO PAY TAXES IS NO EASY TASK

   A2564 BC-RUSSIA-BRIDES-COX- 1215 12:58 R I

   -$ADV13

   A2559 BC-PEASANTS-MAO-COX- 478 12:56 R I

   -$ADV13

   A2555 BC-CHINA-PEASANTS-COX- 1365 12:52 R I

   -$ADV13

   A2547 BC-DEVELOPING-BOX-COX- 234 12:48 R I

   -$ADV21

   A2537 BC-CLINTON-DEVELOPING-CO 1896 12:42 R I

   -$ADV21-1400&AMP;ADD

   A2475 BC-SINKING-YEN-HNS 641 12:16 R I

   (EDs: FILED in ``i'' and ``f'' categories.)

',
			body: '


   &HT;    Here is a list of  INTERNATIONAL  stories that moved Wednesday,
June 10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.
 &HT;    The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    INTERNATIONAL
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3778 BC-EXP-SAFRICA-TRUTH-PANEL-NYT 351 21:21 U I
 &HT;    SOUTH AFRICA USED TOXINS ON ENEMIES, COMMISSION TOLD
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3760 BC-CHINA-CONGRESS-NYT 763 21:07 U I
 &HT;    CONTROLS ON SATELLITE EXPORT TO CHINA EASED IN '96, AUDITOR SAYS
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3744 BC-DRUGS-U.N.-NYT 653 20:55 U I
 &HT;    NATIONS PLEDGE TO REDUCE DEMAND FOR DRUGS
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3739 BC-CANADA-HEALTHCARE-530&AMP;ADD-NYT 675 20:52 U I
 &HT;    (ATTN: Italy)
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3735 BC-NATO-KOSOVO-BOS 680 20:50 U I
 &HT;    NATO CLOSE TO DECISION ON WHETHER TO USE AIR POWER IN KOSOVO
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3723 BC-PROTEST-JERUSALEM-BOS 467 20:44 U I
 &HT;    AMERICAN PEACE ACTIVISTS BEATEN, ARRESTED IN jERUSALEM
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3702 BC-RUSSIA-IMF-546&AMP;ADD-NYT 1050 20:29 U I
 &HT;    IMF DEMANDS IMPROVEMENTS IN RUSSIAN ECONOMY
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3700 BC-EXP-MEXICO-STING-NYT 374 20:27 U I
 &HT;    MEXICO PROTESTS HANDLING OF MONEY-LAUNDERING STING BY U.S.
AGENTS
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3697 BC-CHINA-CLINTON-BOOK-NYT 481 20:26 U I
 &HT;    CHINA BANS BOOK THAT DETAILS CLINTON SEX SCANDALS
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3693 BC-ELIMINATE-NIGERIA-NYT 34 20:24 U I
 &HT;    (pr)
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3684 BC-MEXICO-STING-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 1044 20:18 U I
 &HT;    UNDATED: Carrillo Fuentes.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3682 BC-MEXICO-STING-ART-2TAKES-NYT 980 20:17 U I
 &HT;    (ATTN: Nev., Calif., Ill.)
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3675 BC-EXP-ASIA-ECON-II-NYT 441 20:12 U I
 &HT;    ASIAN CRISIS DEALS SETBACKS TO WOMEN
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3647 BC-TURKEY-RIGHTS-NYT 646 19:57 U I
 &HT;    UNANSWERED QUESTIONS IN SHOOTING OF TURKISH RIGHTS ADVOCATE
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3645 BC-INDONESIA-TIMOR-ART-NYT 790 19:56 U I
 &HT;    INDONESIA PROPOSES SPECIAL STATUS FOR EAST TIMOR
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3622 BC-AIR-FRANCE-STRIKE-NYT 462 19:46 U I
 &HT;    AIR FRANCE PILOTS END STRIKE
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3613 BC-SAFRICA-TRUTH-PANEL-2NDTAKE-NYT 273 19:45 U I
 &HT;    CAPE TOWN, South Africa: government funds.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3615 BC-KOSOVO-TALKS-260&AMP;ADD-NYT 813 19:45 U I
 &HT;    SERBIA SAID TO USE WARPLANES IN ATTACKS ON KOSOVO ALBANIANS
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3612 BC-SAFRICA-TRUTH-PANEL-900(2TAKES)-NYT 921 19:44 U I
 &HT;    SOUTH AFRICA USED TOXINS ON ENEMIES, COMMISSION TOLD
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3603 BC-ASIA-ECON-II-ART-3RDTAKE-NYT 751 19:42 U I
 &HT;    SEOUL, South Korea: ice age.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3602 BC-ASIA-ECON-II-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 1095 19:41 U I
 &HT;    SEOUL, South Korea: of Asia.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3601 BC-ASIA-ECON-II-ART-3TAKES-NYT 1137 19:41 U I
 &HT;    ASIAN CRISIS DEALS SETBACKS TO WOMEN
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3545 BC-TORONTO-CUBANS-ART-925(2TAKES)-NY 987 19:18 U I
 &HT;    IT'S EVERYTHING CASTRO PROMISED, ON LAKE ONTARIO
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3546 BC-TORONTO-CUBANS-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 249 19:19 U I
 &HT;    TORONTO: in Toronto.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3506 BC-ELIMINATE-KOSOVO-U.S.-NATO-NYT 35 19:07 U I
 &HT;    (pr)
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3504 BC-ELIMINATE-ISRAEL-EXCHANGE-NYT 35 19:07 U I
 &HT;    (pr)
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3495 BC-US-ARABS-COX 1002 19:05 U I
 &HT;    
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3496 BC-US-ARABS-BOX-COX 136 19:06 U I
 &HT;    
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3316 BC-ANALITICO-NIGERIA-LIDER-NYTNS 1296 17:44 R I
 &HT;    EL NUEVO LIDER DE NIGERIA PROMETE CELEBRAR ELECCIONES EN OCTUBRE
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3313 BC-ANALITICO-RUSIA-CORRUPCION-NYTNS 1024 17:42 R I
 &HT;    LA REPRESION IMPOSITIVA SE INICIA EN RUSIA CON EL ARRESTO DE
FUNCIONARIOS DE EST
 &HT;    A3314 BC-ANALITICO-RUSIA-SUBASTA-NYTNS 633 17:43 R I
 &HT;    UNA SUBASTA DE DEUDA RUSA NO LOGRA OBTENER LOS FONDOS NECESARIOS
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3311 BC-ANALITICO-DALTON-GUERRILLERO-NYTNS 1384 17:40 R I
 &HT;    UN GUERRILLERO POETA FINALMENTE ES HONRADO, PERO PERMANECE
ELUSIVO
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3312 BC-ANALITICO-VIAGRA-MUERTES-NYTNS 982 17:41 R I
 &HT;    EL MEDICAMENTO VIAGRA, DE PFIZER, NO FUE CAUSA DIRECTA DE LAS
MUERTES, DICE LA O
 &HT;    A3210 BC-SOCCER-IHT 990 17:00 R I
 &HT;    Ronaldo's Brilliance Dazzles Opponents - Brazilian Striker's
Deft Moves Show Sco
 &HT;    A3194 BC-EDHILT-IHT 622 16:56 R I
 &HT;    NATO as Weapons Proliferator
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3191 BC-FRANCE-IHT 939 16:55 R I
 &HT;    Air France Pilots Call Off Their Strike
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3188 BC-TTALT-IHT 826 16:54 R I
 &HT;    The Net Is Not Ready to Save the World
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3185 BC-KAZAK-IHT 1137 16:52 R I
 &HT;    Kazakhs Raise Curtain on Remote New Capital, but Many Ask Why
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3186 BC-BEEF-IHT 473 16:53 R I
 &HT;    EU Recommends Lifting Ban on British Beef
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3180 BC-LEON-IHT 1200 16:49 R I
 &HT;    Clock Ticks, But Brittan Pushes On - EU Trade Commissioner
Hurries to Make His M
 &HT;    A3175 BC-EDCED-IHT 888 16:47 R I
 &HT;    Look at the Benefits and Cost of UN Peacekeeping
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3171 BC-EDPELLS -IHT 817 16:45 R I
 &HT;    A Century Led by Europe, Not America
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3169 BC-TURMOIL-IHT 996 16:43 R I
 &HT;    Asian Markets Recoil on Fear Of Contagion From the Yen
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3166 BC-ECB-IHT 404 16:42 R I
 &HT;    EU Bank Appoints German Spokesman
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3161 BC-WON-IHT 744 16:40 R I
 &HT;    Sumitomo Gives Aid To 5 Korean Banks
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3160 BC-KOR-IHT 427 16:39 R I
 &HT;    Kim Nudges U.S. Congress on Pyongyang
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3159 BC-FED-IHT 1123 16:38 R I
 &HT;    Greenspan Says U.S. Is in a `Virtuous Cycle'
 &HT;    
 &HT;    A3155 BC-BUDGET-IHT 331 16:37 R I
 &HT;    c.1998 International Herald Tribune 

',
			paragraphs: '
   A2888 BC-MEXICO-REBELS-HNS 1094 14:54 U I

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A2753 BC-RUSSIA-TAXES-BOS 1174 13:44 U I

   GETTING RUSSIANS TO PAY TAXES IS NO EASY TASK

   A2564 BC-RUSSIA-BRIDES-COX- 1215 12:58 R I

   -$ADV13

   A2559 BC-PEASANTS-MAO-COX- 478 12:56 R I

   -$ADV13

   A2555 BC-CHINA-PEASANTS-COX- 1365 12:52 R I

   -$ADV13

   A2547 BC-DEVELOPING-BOX-COX- 234 12:48 R I

   -$ADV21

   A2537 BC-CLINTON-DEVELOPING-CO 1896 12:42 R I

   -$ADV21-1400&AMP;ADD

   A2475 BC-SINKING-YEN-HNS 641 12:16 R I

   (EDs: FILED in ``i'' and ``f'' categories.)

'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0033 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 03:07 ',
			header: '
A4230 &Cx1f; ttd-z
r w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-OFFSHORE-DRILLING-SFC     06-11 1538
',
			slug: ' BC-OFFSHORE-DRILLING-SFCHRON ',
			headline: '
CLINTON MAY EXTEND BAN ON DRILLING 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ President Clinton is contemplating an executive
order extending a ban on oil drilling off the California coast and
is being pressed to make an announcement at a national oceans
conference that opens in Monterey Thursday morning.

   California Gov. Pete Wilson and Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif.,
have urged Clinton to extend an existing moratorium, which expires
in two years, to keep new oil rigs from dotting the pristine coast.
A Clinton aide confirmed that the issue is under ``careful
review.''

   ``We are considering extending the moratorium,'' said the
official, who refused to be identified. ``There could be an
announcement as early as Friday.''

   Clinton, who is scheduled to address the conference Friday
afternoon, has spoken to Boxer about the matter twice this week.
The senator said her impression was that Clinton will extend the
ban.

   ``I would say the chances are good,'' said Boxer, who has fought
against offshore drilling since the late 1970s, when she was a
member of the Marin, Calif., County Board of Supervisors. ``I know
he'd like to do it.''

   Meanwhile, as Vice President Al Gore addresses the gathering of
500 scientists and policymakers this afternoon, Clinton will sign
an initiative to preserve coral reefs, White House aides said. They
describe the initiative as ``a major step to protect and restore
some of our most exquisite and most endangered sea life.''

   The initiative directs agencies to take no action that would
degrade coral reefs, and it creates a task force to develop
strategies to preserve them. Clinton is also proposing that an
additional $6 million be spent to restore 18 damaged reefs in
Florida, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam and the Virgin Islands.

   Banning oil drilling off the California coast has long been a
top priority of environmentalists, who are concerned about
aesthetics as well as the danger posed to the marine ecosystem. The
state already has a moratorium on drilling in most of its waters,
which extend three miles off the coast. Federal waters extend 200
miles.

   Wilson called for a permanent moratorium in a four-page letter
to the president.

   ``With the millennium just around the corner, the time has come
to settle the debate once and for all, and to establish a permanent
leasing ban,'' Wilson wrote.

   The plea from Wilson, who has supported the ban on drilling
since his days in the Senate, touched off a tit-for-tat that
underscored the enormous political stakes of the oceans conference.

   ``The president and vice president are pleased the governor has
finally paid attention to these maritime issues and decided to send
a letter,'' said Kathleen McGinty, chair of the White House Council
on Environmental Quality.

   ``The governor's comments ... would be taken a lot more
seriously at the White House if he participated in these events,
instead of being a member of the peanut gallery,'' added another
Clinton aide. The aide said Wilson refused an invitation to
participate in the Monterey conference.

   Wilson's aides said that although the governor was invited to
the conference, he was not asked to participate in any meaningful
way. They said the event is, in part, a grand photo opportunity for
Democrats to boost their chances in the coming election.

   ``It's a fullcourt press to get California back for
reapportionment,'' said Wilson spokesman Sean Walsh. ``A
significant part of this has to do with the gubernatorial,
senatorial and presidential elections.''

   Boxer and a handful of California congressional Democrats,
including Sam Farr of Monterey, Anna Eshoo of Palo Alto and Lynn
Woolsey of Petaluma, plan to participate in the conference.

   Immediately after his speech Friday, Clinton will attend a pair
of fund-raisers for Boxer at the Fairmont Hotel in San Francisco.
Gore is raising money for congressional Democrats in Atherton,
Calif., Thursday afternoon.

   ``The environment is going to be a huge issue in my campaign,''
said Boxer, who is running against Republican state Treasurer Matt
Fong. Boxer has sponsored legislation that would permanently ban
drilling in the federal waters.

   Fong, like Boxer, is flatly opposed to drilling off the coast,
said Fong spokesman Steve Schmidt.

   ``He's 100 percent against it,'' Schmidt said. ``He will never,
ever vote in favor of allowing oil drilling off the California
coast.''

   Some environmentalists saw Wilson's recommendation as a message
intended for his potential successor.

   ``It's an action by the governor to protect (Attorney General)
Dan Lungren from himself,'' said Ann Notthoff, a senior planner
with the Natural Resources Defense Council. ``Nobody knows better
than Wilson and (former President George) Bush that opposing a ban
on offshore oil drilling is tantamount to political suicide.''

   ``It's ironic that Pete Wilson is calling for a moratorium, when
his preferred successor, Dan Lungren, has a long and unapologetic
history of supporting offshore oil drilling,'' said Bill Craven,
the Sierra Club's state director.

   Lungren, the Republican nominee for governor, voted against
drilling when he served in Congress. While he does not favor oil
drilling off the coast, he still wants to keep the option open.

   ``I have always maintained support for limited, environmentally
safe offshore oil if our national security required it,'' Lungren
said yesterday, adding that he does not now foresee ``any
possibility'' of lifting the moratorium.

   Environmental groups threw their support behind Lieutenant
Governor Gray Davis, the Democratic nominee for governor, early in
his primary campaign. They are hoping to make an offshore oil
drilling ban, which Davis supports, a key issue in the campaign.

   Pressure to explore the coastal waters was heightened after the
Arab oil embargo of the 1970s, which prompted many political
leaders to call for more domestic production.

   The environmental community rallied to block such drilling in
the early 1980s when former Interior Secretary James Watt pushed
for drilling as close to San Francisco as San Mateo.

   Currently, drilling is only allowed off the Santa Barbara and
Orange County coasts, in leases that were already in place when
Wilson signed a permanent moratorium on drilling in state waters in
1994.

   Congress has imposed a one-year moratorium for drilling in
federal waters each year since 1982. In addition, Bush issued a
10-year moratorium in 1990.

   At the Monterey Bay Aquarium, with sea otters floating lazily
by, leaders of seven major conservation organizations sought to
raise expectations for the conference by calling on Clinton to take
significant action in three areas:

   -- Ocean habitat. Establish a network of marine reserves that
unlike the existing system of marine sanctuaries are places where
fish and other marine life are off limits to harvesting.

   -- Overfishing. Enforce existing laws and treaties, such as the
Sustainable Fisheries Act, which call for eliminating overfishing
and reducing harmful ``by-catch.''

   -- Pollution. Implement new rules designed to reduce so-called
``nonpoint'' sources of pollution, such as farms and urban runoff,
which are the biggest problem for coastal waters.

   ``We call on the president to adopt this agenda as the
fundamental goals and principles for the administration in this
Year of the Ocean,'' said Warner Chabot, western regional director
of the Center for Marine Conservation.

   Talk of a drilling ban all but overshadowed events on the eve of
the ocean conference. McGinty and other White House representatives
were in Monterey for ceremonies to mark the start of construction
on a $19.4 million research facility for the National Marine
Fisheries Service.

   The 54,000-square-foot Santa Cruz laboratory will be designed to
study salmon and West Coast ground fish, such as rockfish and
flounder. It will replace an obsolete facility in Tiburon, Calif.

   The new lab is expected to be completed by early 2000 and to
have a staff of more than 40 fisheries scientists.

   Rockfish, also known as red snapper in stores and restaurants,
have been declining for several years, along with squid and other
marine life off the central coast, said Maxwell Eldridge, chief of
the physiological ecology branch for the National Marine Fisheries
Service.

   ``Last Sunday we completed a 35-day survey and found the lowest
index for rockfish in the Central California coast over the past 15
years,'' he said.

   One of the missions of the new laboratory, said Rolland
Schmitten, director of the National Marine Fisheries Service, will
be to do annual surveys of ground fish, including rockfish, which
he said are essential to prevent further degradation of their
populations.

   One of the major causes of their decline is believed to be El
Nino, which increases water temperatures and reduces the upwelling
that pushes up nutrients from the ocean's lower regions.

   (Marc Sandalow reported from Washington, D.C., Alex Barnum
reported from Monterey and Michael McCabe reported from Santa
Cruz.)
',
			body: '


   By MARC SANDALOW, ALEX BARNUM and MICHAEL McCABE  
 c.1998 San Francisco Chronicle  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ President Clinton is contemplating an executive
order extending a ban on oil drilling off the California coast and
is being pressed to make an announcement at a national oceans
conference that opens in Monterey Thursday morning.

   California Gov. Pete Wilson and Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif.,
have urged Clinton to extend an existing moratorium, which expires
in two years, to keep new oil rigs from dotting the pristine coast.
A Clinton aide confirmed that the issue is under ``careful
review.''

   ``We are considering extending the moratorium,'' said the
official, who refused to be identified. ``There could be an
announcement as early as Friday.''

   Clinton, who is scheduled to address the conference Friday
afternoon, has spoken to Boxer about the matter twice this week.
The senator said her impression was that Clinton will extend the
ban.

   ``I would say the chances are good,'' said Boxer, who has fought
against offshore drilling since the late 1970s, when she was a
member of the Marin, Calif., County Board of Supervisors. ``I know
he'd like to do it.''

   Meanwhile, as Vice President Al Gore addresses the gathering of
500 scientists and policymakers this afternoon, Clinton will sign
an initiative to preserve coral reefs, White House aides said. They
describe the initiative as ``a major step to protect and restore
some of our most exquisite and most endangered sea life.''

   The initiative directs agencies to take no action that would
degrade coral reefs, and it creates a task force to develop
strategies to preserve them. Clinton is also proposing that an
additional $6 million be spent to restore 18 damaged reefs in
Florida, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam and the Virgin Islands.

   Banning oil drilling off the California coast has long been a
top priority of environmentalists, who are concerned about
aesthetics as well as the danger posed to the marine ecosystem. The
state already has a moratorium on drilling in most of its waters,
which extend three miles off the coast. Federal waters extend 200
miles.

   Wilson called for a permanent moratorium in a four-page letter
to the president.

   ``With the millennium just around the corner, the time has come
to settle the debate once and for all, and to establish a permanent
leasing ban,'' Wilson wrote.

   The plea from Wilson, who has supported the ban on drilling
since his days in the Senate, touched off a tit-for-tat that
underscored the enormous political stakes of the oceans conference.

   ``The president and vice president are pleased the governor has
finally paid attention to these maritime issues and decided to send
a letter,'' said Kathleen McGinty, chair of the White House Council
on Environmental Quality.

   ``The governor's comments ... would be taken a lot more
seriously at the White House if he participated in these events,
instead of being a member of the peanut gallery,'' added another
Clinton aide. The aide said Wilson refused an invitation to
participate in the Monterey conference.

   Wilson's aides said that although the governor was invited to
the conference, he was not asked to participate in any meaningful
way. They said the event is, in part, a grand photo opportunity for
Democrats to boost their chances in the coming election.

   ``It's a fullcourt press to get California back for
reapportionment,'' said Wilson spokesman Sean Walsh. ``A
significant part of this has to do with the gubernatorial,
senatorial and presidential elections.''

   Boxer and a handful of California congressional Democrats,
including Sam Farr of Monterey, Anna Eshoo of Palo Alto and Lynn
Woolsey of Petaluma, plan to participate in the conference.

   Immediately after his speech Friday, Clinton will attend a pair
of fund-raisers for Boxer at the Fairmont Hotel in San Francisco.
Gore is raising money for congressional Democrats in Atherton,
Calif., Thursday afternoon.

   ``The environment is going to be a huge issue in my campaign,''
said Boxer, who is running against Republican state Treasurer Matt
Fong. Boxer has sponsored legislation that would permanently ban
drilling in the federal waters.

   Fong, like Boxer, is flatly opposed to drilling off the coast,
said Fong spokesman Steve Schmidt.

   ``He's 100 percent against it,'' Schmidt said. ``He will never,
ever vote in favor of allowing oil drilling off the California
coast.''

   Some environmentalists saw Wilson's recommendation as a message
intended for his potential successor.

   ``It's an action by the governor to protect (Attorney General)
Dan Lungren from himself,'' said Ann Notthoff, a senior planner
with the Natural Resources Defense Council. ``Nobody knows better
than Wilson and (former President George) Bush that opposing a ban
on offshore oil drilling is tantamount to political suicide.''

   ``It's ironic that Pete Wilson is calling for a moratorium, when
his preferred successor, Dan Lungren, has a long and unapologetic
history of supporting offshore oil drilling,'' said Bill Craven,
the Sierra Club's state director.

   Lungren, the Republican nominee for governor, voted against
drilling when he served in Congress. While he does not favor oil
drilling off the coast, he still wants to keep the option open.

   ``I have always maintained support for limited, environmentally
safe offshore oil if our national security required it,'' Lungren
said yesterday, adding that he does not now foresee ``any
possibility'' of lifting the moratorium.

   Environmental groups threw their support behind Lieutenant
Governor Gray Davis, the Democratic nominee for governor, early in
his primary campaign. They are hoping to make an offshore oil
drilling ban, which Davis supports, a key issue in the campaign.

   Pressure to explore the coastal waters was heightened after the
Arab oil embargo of the 1970s, which prompted many political
leaders to call for more domestic production.

   The environmental community rallied to block such drilling in
the early 1980s when former Interior Secretary James Watt pushed
for drilling as close to San Francisco as San Mateo.

   Currently, drilling is only allowed off the Santa Barbara and
Orange County coasts, in leases that were already in place when
Wilson signed a permanent moratorium on drilling in state waters in
1994.

   Congress has imposed a one-year moratorium for drilling in
federal waters each year since 1982. In addition, Bush issued a
10-year moratorium in 1990.

   At the Monterey Bay Aquarium, with sea otters floating lazily
by, leaders of seven major conservation organizations sought to
raise expectations for the conference by calling on Clinton to take
significant action in three areas:

   -- Ocean habitat. Establish a network of marine reserves that
unlike the existing system of marine sanctuaries are places where
fish and other marine life are off limits to harvesting.

   -- Overfishing. Enforce existing laws and treaties, such as the
Sustainable Fisheries Act, which call for eliminating overfishing
and reducing harmful ``by-catch.''

   -- Pollution. Implement new rules designed to reduce so-called
``nonpoint'' sources of pollution, such as farms and urban runoff,
which are the biggest problem for coastal waters.

   ``We call on the president to adopt this agenda as the
fundamental goals and principles for the administration in this
Year of the Ocean,'' said Warner Chabot, western regional director
of the Center for Marine Conservation.

   Talk of a drilling ban all but overshadowed events on the eve of
the ocean conference. McGinty and other White House representatives
were in Monterey for ceremonies to mark the start of construction
on a $19.4 million research facility for the National Marine
Fisheries Service.

   The 54,000-square-foot Santa Cruz laboratory will be designed to
study salmon and West Coast ground fish, such as rockfish and
flounder. It will replace an obsolete facility in Tiburon, Calif.

   The new lab is expected to be completed by early 2000 and to
have a staff of more than 40 fisheries scientists.

   Rockfish, also known as red snapper in stores and restaurants,
have been declining for several years, along with squid and other
marine life off the central coast, said Maxwell Eldridge, chief of
the physiological ecology branch for the National Marine Fisheries
Service.

   ``Last Sunday we completed a 35-day survey and found the lowest
index for rockfish in the Central California coast over the past 15
years,'' he said.

   One of the missions of the new laboratory, said Rolland
Schmitten, director of the National Marine Fisheries Service, will
be to do annual surveys of ground fish, including rockfish, which
he said are essential to prevent further degradation of their
populations.

   One of the major causes of their decline is believed to be El
Nino, which increases water temperatures and reduces the upwelling
that pushes up nutrients from the ocean's lower regions.

   (Marc Sandalow reported from Washington, D.C., Alex Barnum
reported from Monterey and Michael McCabe reported from Santa
Cruz.)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0034 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 03:10 ',
			header: '
A4233 &Cx1f; taf-z
r f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FINANCIAL-SLUGLIST-CL     06-11 3785
',
			slug: ' BC-FINANCIAL-SLUGLIST-CLOSER ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; FINANCIAL &LR;  stories that moved Wednesday, June
10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   FINANCIAL

   A4169 BC-JAPAN-MACHINERY-ORDERS-BLOOM 824 01:16 R F

   JAPAN'S MACHINERY ORDERS IN APRIL FELL 16.8% FROM MARCH

   A4165 BC-THAI-LAND-BLOOM 657 01:11 R F

   FOREIGN LAND OWNERSHIP LAW SHOULD BE EASED, THAI BOARD SAYS

   A4161 BC-JAPAN-STOCKS-BLOOM 833 01:02 R F

   JAPANESE STOCKS FALL, LED BY BANKS ON ASIAN CURRENCY CONCERNS

   A4155 BC-JAPAN-BONDS-BLOOM 721 00:55 R F

   JAPANESE BONDS FALL AS PLUNGING YEN RAISES FEARS ABOUT BANKS

   A4145 BC-GALLERIA-MAKEOVER-LADN 908 00:35 R F

   BIG CHANGES IN STORE FOR GALLERIA, EPICENTER OF `VALLEY GIRL'
FAME

   A4133 BC-CODELCO-SLOWDOWN-BLOOM 243 00:20 R F

   CODELCO WORKERS TO DECIDE FRIDAY WHETHER TO CONTINUE SLOWDOWN

   A4132 BC-TOKYO-CONDO-SALES-UPDATE1-BLOOM 719 00:18 R F

   TOKYO-AREA CONDOS FOR SALE ROSE 10.1% IN MAY ON YEAR (UPDATE1)

   A4129 BC-TOKYO-CONDO-SALES-BLOOM 682 00:12 R F

   TOKYO-AREA CONDOMINIUMS FOR SALE ROSE 10.1% IN MAY ON YEAR

   A4127 BC-LIBERTY-FINANCIAL-BLOOM 476 00:05 R F

   LIBERTY FINANCIAL AGREES TO BUY FUND MANAGER CRABBE HUSON

   A4110 BC-US-BONDS-ASIA-BLOOM 547 23:32 R F

   U.S. BONDS RISE AS ASIA'S SLUMP PROMPTS FLIGHT TO QUALITY

   A4106 BC-KIRIN-STOCK-FALLS-BLOOM 257 23:29 R F

   KIRIN FALLS AS LOW-MALT BREW WON'T OFFSET DROP IN REGULAR BEER

   A4095 BC-JAPAN-DOLLAR-BLOOM 713 23:22 R F

   DOLLAR REACHES 7-YEAR HIGH AGAINST YEN ON FALLING ASIAN STOCKS

   A4091 BC-JAPAN-CENTRAL-BANK-BLOOM 432 23:15 R F

   BANK OF JAPAN TODAY: BLOOMBERG CENTRAL BANK WATCH

   A3919 BC-PHILADELPHIA-SEAT-HOLDER-UPDATE1-BLOOM 457 23:11 R F

   LARGEST PHILADELPHIA SEAT HOLDER SUPPORTS MERGER (UPDATE1)

   A4037 BC-BOEING-ROLLOUT-SPI 650 23:07 U F

   BOEING'S NEWEST, SMALLEST PLANE ROLLS OFF THE LINE

   A3909 BC-CLINTON-APPROVAL-RATING-BLOOM 430 22:57 R F

   CLINTON JOB-APPROVAL RATING DIPS TO 60%, CBS/TIMES POLL SAYS

   A3902 BC-ALLIANCE-GOLDMAN-JAPAN-BLOOM 420 22:48 R F

   ALLIANCE, GOLDMAN TOPS IN STOCK-FUND INVESTMENT IN JAPAN IN MAY

   A3899 BC-HONDA-UK-PLANT-UPDATE1-BLOOM 229 22:47 R F

   HONDA TO INVEST 500 MILLION POUNDS IN U.K. CAR PLANT (UPDATE1)

   A3890 BC-KOO-KOO-ROO-LADN 780 22:37 R F

   TRENDY KOO KOO ROO CHICKEN CHAIN TO JOIN FAMILY FLOCK

   A3886 BC-CHO-HUNG-KIM-BLOOM 304 22:33 R F

   CHO HUNG BANK RISES 12% ON $200 MLN INVESTMENT BY YURIE'S KIM

   A3885 BC-JAPAN-STOCKS-MIDDAY-BLOOM 731 22:33 R F

   JAPANESE STOCKS FALL, LED BY BANKS ON ASIAN CURRENCY CONCERNS

   A3875 BC-JAPAN-BONDS-BLOOM 607 22:24 R F

   JAPANESE BONDS FALL ON ASIAN TURMOIL, WEAK DOMESTIC ECONOMY

   A3866 BC-BIZGLANCE-NYT 570 22:19 U F

   BUSINESS AT A GLANCE

   A3864 BC-JAPAN-DOLLAR-BLOOM 187 22:18 R F

   DOLLAR RISES TO 7-YEAR HIGH AGAINST YEN ON FALLING ASIAN STOCKS

   A3851 BC-ADVERTISING-NOTES-NYT 231 22:10 U F

   ADVERTISING NOTES

   A3849 BC-SOUTHEAST-ASIAN-CURRENCIES-RUPIAH-BLOOM 368 22:09 R F

   SOUTHEAST ASIAN CURRENCIES FALL; INDONESIAN RUPIAH PLUMMETS

   A3845 BC-COMPANIES-NYT 146 22:07 U F

   COMPANY NEWS

   A3841 BC-CREDITSUISSE-BRAZIL-NYT 628 22:05 U F

   SWISS-AMERICAN GROUP BUYS A TOP BRAZILIAN BANK

   A3839 BC-NYC-BUSINESS-BRIEFS-NYT 488 22:05 U F

   BUSINESS BRIEFS

   A3831 BC-INKTOMI-SFCHRON 612 21:59 R F

   (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service)

   A3832 BC-JAPAN-DOLLAR-BLOOM 640 22:00 R F

   DOLLAR LITTLE CHANGED NEAR 7-YEAR HIGH VS YEN ON ASIAN WOES

   A3828 BC-GRAPHICS-FILES 169 21:59 U F

   A3827 BC-WELLS-SFCHRON 868 21:58 R F

   (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service)

   A3825 BC-SHAPIRO-SFCHRON 1076 21:56 R F

   (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service)

   A3824 BC-DIGITAL-SFCHRON 708 21:55 R F

   (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service)

   A3816 BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT 1851 21:48 U F

   A3797 BC-FINBUDGET-SFCHRON 189 21:35 R F

   These are the stories The San Francisco Chronicle Business
section plans to move

   A3786 BC-EMPLOYEE-AIRFARES-340&AMP;ADD-NYT 931 21:29 U F

   GM, CHRYSLER TO RETAIN AIRLINE FOR UNLIMITED EMPLOYEE TRAVEL

   A3774 BC-JAPAN-KURODA-YEN-BLOOM 396 21:18 R F

   KURODA SAYS JAPAN AND G-7 WILL BOOST YEN IF NECESSARY (UPDATE1)

   A3761 BC-CLINTON-TOBACCO-UPDATE6-BLOOM 909 21:08 R F

   SENATE ATTACHES TAX CUT, ADVANCES ITS TOBACCO BILL (UPDATE6)

   A3762 BC-GM-STRIKE-ART-435&AMP;ADD-NYT 1201 21:09 U F

   (ATTN: Mich., Ohio, Kan., Ind., N.J., Canada, Idaho, Conn.)

   A3758 BC-IBM-TI-1STLD-TEX 835 21:06 R F

   (EDS: Adds tagline with Web note at end)

   A3756 BC-IBM-TI-TEX 811 21:04 R F

   IBM ELBOWS ITS WAY INTO A GROWING SPECIALTY CHIPS MARKET

   A3745 BC-OVERSEAS-SHIPHOLDING-BLOOM 205 20:56 R F

   OVERSEAS SHIPHOLDING FORMS VENTURE TO DELIVER BP'S ALASKAN OIL

   A3727 BC-PRODUCT-LIABILITY-NYT 241 20:47 U F

   (ATTN: Wash.)

   A3725 BC-GM-KOREA-BLOOM 225 20:45 R F

   GM CHAIRMAN SAYS `VERY INTERESTED' IN INVESTING IN KOREA

   A3720 BC-CREDIT-ART-690&AMP;ADD-NYT 1000 20:42 U F

   FED CHAIRMAN'S REPORT AIDS BOND-MARKET RALLY

   A3718 BC-JAPAN-BONDS-OPEN-BLOOM 560 20:41 R F

   JAPANESE BONDS FALL ON ASIAN ECONOMIC TURMOIL, WEAK ECONOMY

   A3710 BC-JAPAN-DOLLAR-BLOOM 480 20:38 R F

   DOLLAR FALLS FROM 7-YEAR HIGH VS YEN ON CONCERN G-7 MAY ACT

   A3708 BC-JAPAN-ECON-ART-525&AMP;ADD-NYT 964 20:36 U F

   JAPAN AGAIN CONSIDERS CLOSING WEAK BANKS

   A3705 NYTR-BUSINESS-BUDGET 2389 20:32 U F

   A3704 BC-HONEYWELL-AZR 564 20:32 R F

   HONEYWELL TO HIRE LAID-OFF MOTOROLA, IN TEL WORKERS

   A3698 BC-DELL-ADS-BLOOM 526 20:26 R F

   DELL COMPUTER ROLLS OUT NEW $70-MILLION GLOBAL AD CAMPAIGN

   A3695 BC-DELTA-MARKETING-CHIEF-NYT 498 20:25 U F

   (ATTN: Calif.)

   A3696 BC-JAPAN-STOCKS-OPEN-BLOOM 630 20:25 R F

   JAPANESE STOCKS FALL, LED BY BANKS ON ASIAN CURRENCY CONCERNS

   A3690 BC-SILICON-POLITICS-ART-2TAKES-NYT 859 20:22 U F

   (ATTN: Calif., Conn., Ohio)

   A3691 BC-SILICON-POLITICS-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 1130 20:23 U F

   WASHINGTON: were identified.

   A3687 BC-CLINTON-WAGE-UPDATE1-BLOOM 951 20:20 R F

   CLINTON URGES CONGRESS TO TOUGHEN WAGE BIAS PENALTIES (UPDATE1)

   A3678 BC-PERU-ECONOMY-UPDATE1-BLOOM 273 20:12 R F

   PERU'S BACA SAYS ECONOMY SHRUNK ABOUT 4% IN APRIL (UPDATE1)

   A3672 BC-JAPAN-MARKETPLACE-NYT 855 20:10 U F

   MARKET PLACE: THE YEN HAS ONE DIRECTION _ DOWN

   A3670 BC-FED-GREENSPAN-ART-507(2TAKES)-NYT 1047 20:09 U F

   GREENSPAN CALLS ECONOMY `AS IMPRESSIVE AS ANY' HE'S SEEN

   A3671 BC-FED-GREENSPAN-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 225 20:10 U F

   WASHINGTON: temporary factors.

   A3661 BC-AZTEC-TECHNOLOGY-BLOOM 239 20:04 R F

   AZTEC TECHNOLOGY CANCELS ITS PLANNED IPO, COMPLETES SPINOFF

   A3655 BC-EXIMBANK-MEXICO-BLOOM 262 20:00 R F

   U.S. EX-IM BANK ISSUES $581 MLN IN MEXICAN PROJECT GUARANTEES

   A3652 BC-HOUSE-BANKRUPTCY-BILL-BLOOM 807 19:58 R F

   BANKRUPTCY BILL SOUGHT BY CREDIT COMPANIES PASSES U.S. HOUSE

   A3646 BC-PHILADELPHIA-SEAT-HOLDER-BLOOM 407 19:56 R F

   LARGEST PHILADELPHIA SEAT HOLDER SUPPORTS AMEX MERGER

   A3642 BC-MUTUAL-FUND-BLOOM 845 19:53 R F

   MUNDER FACES OWNERSHIP AND PERFORMANCE QUESTIONS: MUTUAL FUNDS

   A3639 BC-CLINTON-TOBACCO-UPDATE5-BLOOM 995 19:51 R F

   SENATE ATTACHES ELECTION-YEAR TAX CUT TO TOBACCO BILL (UPDATE5)

   A3640 BC-ABC-AD-COLUMN-NYT 1057 19:52 U F

   ADVERTISING: ABC LIGHTENS UP ON LAST YEAR'S TV CAMPAIGN

   A3628 BC-WORLD-BANK-CHINA-BLOOM 278 19:48 R F

   CHINA RECEIVES $150 MLN FROM WORLD BANK FOR IRRIGATION PROJECT

   A3629 BC-CHC-UPDATE1-BLOOM 366 19:48 R F

   CHC WILL TRY AGAIN TO SELL ITS REPAIR UNIT IN IPO (UPDATE1)

   A3627 BC-DRUGS-ECONSCENE-NYT 824 19:47 U F

   ECONOMIC SCENE: WAR ON DRUGS IS UNDER ATTACK

   A3618 BC-IMF-THAILAND-BLOOM 429 19:46 R F

   IMF APPROVES $133 MLN INSTALLMENT TO THAILAND AFTER 3RD REVIEW

   A3621 BC-HELMSLEY-SALE-BLOOM 243 19:46 R F

   HELMSLEY SELLS STAKE IN INVESTMENT PROPERTIES FOR $100 MLN

   A3609 BC-US-WEST-QWEST-BLOOM 425 19:44 R F

   U S WEST ASKS COURT TO REVIEW ORDER HALTING MORE QWEST SALES

   A3608 BC-BUSINESS-LADN 162 19:44 U F

   Here are the business news stories the Los Angeles Daily News
plans to move

   A3604 BC-BEVERLY-ENTERPRISES-REPEAT-BLOOM 398 19:43 R F

   BEVERLY ENT. PERSUADES JUDGE TO CUT $95 MLN JURY AWARD (REPEAT)

   A3600 BC-DYNEX-AUTOBOND-BLOOM 464 19:40 R F

   DYNEX PROVIDES $300 MLN FINANCING TO AUTOBOND, MAY BUY LENDER

   A3598 BC-GLOBAL-COMMODITIES-BLOOM 1359 19:38 R F

   GLOBAL COMMODITIES: OIL FALLS AS NEED SEEN FOR MORE OUTPUT CUTS

   A3594 BC-FINFRONTS-NYT 555 19:37 U F

   (lb)

   A3591 BC-GM-SECOND-STRIKE-BLOOM 425 19:36 R F

   GM WORKERS WILL STAGE SECOND FLINT STRIKE, UNION MEMBER SAYS

   A3588 BC-VW-MEXICO-CREDIT-UPDATE1-BLOOM 362 19:34 R F

   MEXICO'S VW UNIT SEES FINANCING DOUBLING TO $100 MLN (UPDATE1)

   A3585 BC-CLINTON-CHINA-SPEECH-BLOOM 544 19:33 R F

   CLINTON TO DEFEND CHINA POLICY IN NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SPEECH

   A3586 BC-NAC-RE-BLOOM 165 19:33 R F

   NAC RE RAISES DIVIDEND 20%; NAMES NICHOLAS BROWN NEW CEO

   A3580 BC-MACMILLAN-BLOEDEL-UPDATE1-BLOOM 412 19:31 R F

   MACMILLAN BLOEDEL PLEDGES TO END CLEAR-CUTTING (UPDATE1)

   A3577 BC-COLORADO-STOCKS-CLOSE-UPDATE1-BLOOM 246 19:30 R F

   COLORADO STOCKS FALL A 2D DAY, LED BY LOCKHEED MARTIN (UPDATE1)

   A3576 BC-CONGRESS-CFTC-UPDATE1-BLOOM 850 19:30 R F

   LAWMAKERS RELUCTANT TO STOP CFTC REVIEW OF OTC SWAPS (UPDATE1)

   A3564 BC-GERMANY-IRAN-TALKS-BLOOM 328 19:27 R F

   IRANIAN, GERMAN FOREIGN MINISTERS MEET TO MEND POLITICAL TIES

   A3561 BC-COLOMBIA-STOCKS-UPDATE1-BLOOM 491 19:26 R F

   COLOMBIA STOCKS FALL, LED BY BANKS, INSURANCE SHARES (UPDATE1)

   A3562 BC-BUDGET-LATIN-AMERICA-ADD1-BLOOM 218 19:26 R F

   BLOOMBERG LATIN AMERICAN BUDGET FOR JUNE 10 (ADD1)

   A3557 BC-US-COMMODITIES-CLOSE2-BLOOM 998 19:24 R F

   U.S. COMMODITIES: OIL FALLS AS OUTPUT CUTS FALL SHORT (UPDATE2)

   A3553 BC-ASSET-BACKED-BONDS-BLOOM 469 19:22 R F

   ASSET-BACKED DEMAND STILL STRONG; SALLIE MAE SELLS $3.02 BLN

   A3554 BC-MEGO-MORTGAGE-BLOOM 401 19:23 R F

   MEGO MORTGAGE RECEIVES $30 MILLION FROM THREE INVESTORS

   A3552 BC-PERU-ECONOMY-BLOOM 198 19:22 R F

   PERU FINANCE MINISTER SAYS ECONOMY SHRINKS ABOUT 4% IN APRIL

   A3550 BC-CLINTON-TOBACCO-UPDATE4-BLOOM 950 19:21 R F

   CLINTON CONCESSIONS FAIL TO ADVANCE TOBACCO BILL (UPDATE4)

   A3547 BC-RIVER-STRIKE-BLOOM 474 19:19 R F

   MISSISSIPPI RIVER PILOTS TO END STRIKE AUG. 3 (REPEAT)

   A3548 BC-STOLT-COMEX-CEANIC-BLOOM 423 19:20 R F

   STOLT COMEX TO BUY CEANIC FOR $222 MLN, $20 A SHARE (REPEAT)

   A3543 BC-BEVERLY-ENTERPRISES-BLOOM 390 19:17 R F

   BEVERLY ENTERPRISES JURY AWARD CUT TO $3.1 MLN FROM $95.1 MLN

   A3541 BC-GINGRICH-BUDGET-OFFICE-UPDATE1-BLOOM 418 19:16 R F

   GINGRICH THREATENS CONGRESS'S BUDGET OFFICE FUNDING (UPDATE1)

   A3542 BC-VENEZUELA-OIL-UPDATE2-BLOOM 368 19:17 R F

   VENEZUELA SEES OIL INDUSTRY GROWTH OF 1% IN 1998 (UPDATE2)

   A3535 BC-MICHIGAN-STOCKS-REPEAT-BLOOM 401 19:15 R F

   MICHIGAN STOCKS: HERMAN MILLER, GENTEX LEAD INDEX LOWER

   A3536 BC-SOFTWARE-ISSUES-COX 552 19:15 U F

   A3530 BC-CANTOR-FITZGERALD-SUIT-BLOOM 207 19:14 R F

   SUIT AGAINST CANTOR FITZGERALD BY IRIS CANTOR IS DISMISSED

   A3528 BC-EX-IM-KOREA-BLOOM 250 19:13 R F

   U.S. EX-IM BANK TO EXPAND EXPORT CREDITS TO KOREA BY $2.25 BLN

   A3522 BC-LATIN-AMERICA-STOCKS-BLOOM 670 19:11 R F

   LATIN AMERICAN STOCKS: ASIA, LOWER OIL PRICES WEIGH ON SHARES

   A3519 BC-DONNA-KARAN-BLOOM 241 19:11 R F

   DONNA KARAN AND ESPRIT TO SELL INFANTS, TODDLERS CLOTHING

   A3520 BC-PRIMESTAR-SATELLITE-BLOOM 525 19:11 R F

   PRIMESTAR SEEKS WAY TO SETTLE FIGHT OVER SATELLITE ACQUISITION

   A3515 BC-AGRIUM-BLOOM 190 19:09 R F

   AGRIUM BUYS BACK 6.4 MILLION SHARES, HALF OF PLANNED PURCHASE

   A3511 BC-NORTH-AMERICA-ECONOMY-BLOOM 366 19:08 R F

   NORTH AMERICA ECONOMY FORECAST TO GROW 3.5% IN '98, 2.7% IN '99

   A3505 BC-ELIMINATE-MARKET-NYT 32 19:08 U F

   (pr)

   A3503 BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT 286 19:07 U F

   A3501 BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT 286 19:07 U F

   A3502 BC-ETHIOPIA-WORLD-BANK-UPDATE1-BLOOM 363 19:07 R F

   WORLD BANK LENDS ETHIOPIA $60 MLN FOR FARM RESEARCH (UPDATE1)

   A3493 BC-ALLMERICA-CITIZEN-UPDATE1-BLOOM 324 19:04 R F

   ALLMERICA, CITIZENS SEE $25.3 MLN 2ND-QTR STORM LOSS (UPDATE1)

   A3494 BC-CHEVRON-GASOLINE-BLOOM 525 19:04 R F

   CHEVRON WINS FIGHT TO STALL SAN FRANCISCO GASOLINE ORDINANCE

   A3489 BC-BRAZIL-STOCKS-UPDATE2-BLOOM 529 19:02 R F

   BRAZILIAN STOCKS FALL AS ASIAN DECLINES SPUR SELL-OFF (UPDATE2)

   A3477 BC-US-AIRWAYS-GATWICK-UPDATE1-BLOOM 511 18:56 R F

   U.S. DELAYS MOVE ON US AIRWAYS' U.K. ROUTE COMPLAINT (UPDATE1)

   A3478 BC-COLOMBIA-INDUSTRIAL-OUTPUT-BLOOM 564 18:56 R F

   COLOMBIA'S INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 19% IN MARCH ON HIGH DEMAND

   A3476 BC-DRUG-WHOLESALERS-UPDATE1-BLOOM 717 18:55 R F

   CARDINAL, MCKESSON BUYS SAID TO MEAN PRICE INCREASE (UPDATE1)

   A3474 BC-WILNER-PROFILE-BLOOM 689 18:55 R F

   `WOODY' WILNER, A DAVID AGAINST TOBACCO GOLIATHS, WINS AGAIN

   A3450 BC-SILICON-VALLEY-STOCKS-BLOOM 308 18:40 R F

   SILICON VALLEY STOCKS: LINEAR TECH, QUANTUM LEAD INDEX'S FALL

   A3444 BC-UNITED-HEALTHCARE-UPDATE2-BLOOM 385 18:35 R F

   UNITED HEALTHCARE COMFORTABLE WITH 1998 ESTIMATES (UPDATE2)

   A3442 BC-US-GRAINS-CLOSE-REPEAT-BLOOM 447 18:34 R F

   SOYBEANS RISE ON SPECULATION OF DEMAND FOR FOOD OIL (REPEAT)

   A3443 BC-CABLE&AMP;WIRELESS-MCI-UPDATE1-BLOOM 695 18:35 R F

   CABLE &AMP; WIRELESS FILES COMPLAINT, SEEKS INJUNCTION (UPDATE1)

   A3440 BC-LILCO-MARKETSPAN-UPDATE1-BLOOM 845 18:33 R F

   MARKETSPAN SUED OVER COMPENSATION PAID BY LILCO (UPDATE1)

   A3441 BC-TOBACCO-FLORIDA-UPDATE6-BLOOM 965 18:33 R F

   B.A.T'S BROWN &AMP; WILLIAMSON LOSES FLORIDA TOBACCO SUIT (UPDATE6)

   A3437 BC-ENCRYPTION-UPDATE-3-BLOOM 714 18:32 R F

   HIGH-TECH CHIEFS FAIL TO REACH ENCRYPTION COMPROMISE (UPDATE3)

   A3434 BC-MEDITRUST-LAQUINTA-BLOOM 368 18:31 R F

   MEDITRUST, LA QUINTA SET TERMS FOR $2.73 BILLION PURCHASE

   A3432 BC-BOEING-BLOOM 153 18:30 R F

   BOEING SAYS ITS PROFIT MARGIN WILL REMAIN UNDER PRESSURE

   A3430 BC-CLINTON-TOBACCO-UPDATE3-BLOOM 935 18:29 R F

   CLINTON CONCESSIONS FAIL TO ADVANCE TOBACCO BILL (UPDATE3)

   A3419 BC-CORPORATE-BOND-CLOSE-REPEAT-BLOOM 992 18:25 R F

   CORPORATE BONDS: EQUITY OFFICE PROPERTIES LEADS SALES (REPEAT)

   A3411 BC-GINGRICH-TAXES-BLOOM 540 18:23 R F

   GINGRICH TO PROPOSE LOWERING CAPITAL GAINS, INHERITANCE TAXES

   A3407 BC-VENEZUELA-CRYSTALLEX-UPDATE1-BLOOM 263 18:22 R F

   VENEZUELAN COURT TO DECIDE ON HEARING CRYSTALLEX CASE (UPDATE1)

   A3408 BC-FCC-SET-TOP-BOXES-BLOOM 764 18:22 R F

   FCC TO VOTE ON PLAN REQUIRING CABLE BOXES TO BE SOLD IN STORES

   A3404 BC-COSTA-RICA-ENERGY-BLOOM 222 18:22 R F

   COSTA RICAN GEOTHERMAL PLANT BOOSTED BY PRIVATE INVESTMENT

   A3405 BC-CONNECTICUT-STOCKS-CLOSE-BLOOM 265 18:22 R F

   CONNECTICUT STOCKS: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES DRIVES INDEX DOWN

   A3400 BC-CORPORATE-BOND-CLOSE-BLOOM 998 18:20 R F

   CORPORATE BONDS: EQUITY OFFICE PROPERTIES, TEXACO LEAD SALES

   A3403 BC-IBM-CUSTOM-CHIPS-UPDATE2-BLOOM 741 18:21 R F

   IBM TO BOOST CUSTOM CHIPS FOR PHONES, OTHER MARKETS (UPDATE2)

   A3398 BC-US-AIRWAYS-GATWICK-BLOOM 490 18:20 R F

   U.S. DELAYS MOVE ON US AIRWAYS COMPLAINT IN U.K. ROUTE DISPUTE

   A3397 BC-GEICO-BERKSHIRE-BLOOM 412 18:19 R F

   GAP, TUPPERWARE STAKES ACQUIRED BY BERKSHIRE'S GEICO UNIT

   A3392 BC-KUWAIT-IRAQ-BLOOM 257 18:18 R F

   KUWAIT ASKS FOR FURTHER UN HELP IN MAINTAINING IRAQ BORDER

   A3395 BC-GOLDMAN-SACHS-CORRECT-BLOOM 743 18:18 R F

   GOLDMAN'S DECISION ON AN IPO MAY BE PREDETERMINED (CORRECT)

   A3389 BC-KOO-KOO-ROO-UPDATE2-BLOOM 804 18:17 R F

   KOO KOO ROO TO BE ACQUIRED BY FAMILY RESTAURANTS (UPDATE2)

   A3390 BC-MICHIGAN-STOCKS-CLOSE-BLOOM 400 18:17 R F

   MICHIGAN STOCKS: HERMAN MILLER, GENTEX LEAD INDEX LOWER

   A3388 BC-SHOPPING.COM-EXECUTIVE-UPDATE1-BLOOM 638 18:16 R F

   SHOPPING.COM'S EX-CEO GOES PART TIME, GETS PAY RAISE (UPDATE1)

   A3383 BC-MCMORAN-UPDATE1-BLOOM 189 18:15 R F

   MCMORAN HOLDINGS RAISED BY ALPINE TO 11.2% FROM 10.1% (UPDATE1)

   A3386 BC-MONEY-MARKET-YIELDS-BLOOM 327 18:15 R F

   MONEY MARKET YIELDS MOSTLY FALL; TAXABLE ASSETS RISE TO RECORD

   A3382 BC-INKTOMI-SHARES-UPDATE3-BLOOM 647 18:14 R F

   INKTOMI CORP. SHARES DOUBLE ON NASDAQ DEBUT (UPDATE3)

   A3379 BC-KEYRATES-NYT 168 18:14 U F

   KEY RATES

   A3367 BC-MEXICO-STOCKS-UPDATE1-BLOOM 623 18:08 R F

   MEXICO STOCKS PLUNGE FOR BIGGEST DROP IN FIVE MONTHS (UPDATE1)

   A3370 BC-GOLD-MARKET--CLOSE-BLOOM 364 18:09 R F

   GOLD LITTLE CHANGED AS TRADERS SEEK ECB INFORMATION (UPDATE1)

   A3366 BC-AURORA-FOODS-IPO-BLOOM 472 18:08 R F

   AURORA FOODS TO SELL 14.5 MLN SHARES AT $20-$23 EACH IN IPO

   A3361 BC-BUSINESS-BJT11-COX 641 18:05 R F

   A3356 BC-TESTDRIVE11-COX 622 18:04 R F

   A3357 BC-THE-MECHANIC11-COX 665 18:05 R F

   A3359 BC-FIDELITY-OFFSHORE-MARKETING-BLOOM 396 18:04 R F

   FIDELITY LOOKS TO TAP OFFSHORE MARKET OF WEALTHY INVESTORS

   A3355 BC-SHARP-DRIVING11-COX 472 18:02 R F

   A3351 BC-NEIMAN11-COX 331 18:00 R F

   A3352 BC-GOLDMAN-SACHS-IPO-BLOOM 745 18:00 R F

   GOLDMAN'S DECISION ON AN IPO MAY BE PREDETERMINED BY THE MARKET

   A3348 BC-DUPONT-TRINIDAD-BLOOM 908 17:58 R F

   DUPONT JOINT VENTURE PLANS PETROCHEMICAL PLANT IN TRINIDAD

   A3349 BC-HOLSENDOLPH-COLUMN11-COX 944 17:59 R F

   A3346 BC-ANALYST-ACTION-BLOOM 1345 17:56 R F

   RATING CHANGES, NEW COVERAGE ON NORTH AMERICAN STOCKS

   A3345 BC-AIRPORT-FOOD11-COX 493 17:56 R F

   A3341 BC-TEXAS-INSTRUMENTS-UPDATE3-BLOOM 737 17:53 R F

   TEXAS INSTRUMENTS FALLS 6% AS IBM INVADES CHIP TURF (UPDATE3)

   A3339 BC-SUNBEAM-UPDATE1-BLOOM 713 17:52 R F

   SUNBEAM STAKE OF 1.7% REPORTED BY EQUITABLE TO SEC (UPDATE1)

   A3340 BC-NOVARTIS-CORRECT-BLOOM 641 17:52 R F

   NOVARTIS SEES `MODEST' SALES GROWTH IN DRUGS SALES (CORRECT)

   A3338 BC-BREAST-IMPLANTS-REPEAT-BLOOM 793 17:51 R F

   LAWMAKERS SEEK RESEARCH ON RISKS OF SILICONE IMPLANTS (REPEAT)

   A3335 BC-DSM-NOVO-NORDISK-BLOOM 296 17:51 R F

   DSM SUES NOVO NORDISK OVER INDUSTRIAL ENZYMES TECHNOLOGY

   A3336 BC-ALLAMERICA-CITIZENS-LOSSES-BLOOM 147 17:51 R F

   ALLMERICA, CITIZENS CORP. SEE $25.3 MLN 2ND-QTR STORM LOSSES

   A3333 BC-MYLAN-LABS-UPDATE1-BLOOM 249 17:50 R F

   MYLAN LABORATORIES' SULFAMYLON RECEIVES FDA APPROVAL (UPDATE1)

   A3334 BC-MORTGAGE-RATES-BLOOM 373 17:50 R F

   MORTGAGE RATES FALL IN WEEK; 30-YEAR FIXED LOANS AT 7.06%

   A3329 BC-PERU-STOCKS-UPDATE1-BLOOM 367 17:49 R F

   PERU STOCKS FALL AS ASIAN MARKETS UNSETTLE INVESTORS (UPDATE1)

   A3327 BC-VENEZUELA-STOCKS-BLOOM 509 17:48 R F

   VENEZUELAN STOCKS FALL TO 19-MONTH LOW AS OIL FALLS (UPDATE1)

   A3328 BC-YEAR2000-INVESTORS-HNS 833 17:49 U F

   YEAR 2000 COMPUTER GLITCH COULD THREATEN MILLIONS OF INVESTORS

   A3325 BC-UTAH-STOCKS-BLOOM 206 17:47 R F

   UTAH STOCKS FALL, LED BY THIOKOL CORP.

   A3322 BC-ALABAMA-STOCKS-BLOOM 212 17:46 R F

   ALABAMA STOCKS FALL, LED BY USX - U.S. STEEL

   A3324 BC-ECONOMY-US-UPDATE4-BLOOM 1070 17:47 R F

   U.S. ECONOMY: GREENSPAN SEES SLOW GROWTH, TAME PRICES (UPDATE4)

   A3321 BC-PPG-SHARES-BLOOM 231 17:46 R F

   PPG SHARES FALL 4.1% ON CONCERN ABOUT CUSTOMER GM'S STRIKE

   A3317 BC-ILLINOIS-STOCKS-BLOOM 206 17:45 R F

   ILLINOIS STOCKS FALL, LED BY CATERPILLAR

   A3315 BC-TOBACCO-FLORIDA-UPDATE5-BLOOM 861 17:43 R F

   B.A.T'S BROWN &AMP; WILLIAMSON LOSES FLORIDA TOBACCO SUIT (UPDATE5)

   A3308 BC-PUGET-SOUND-STOCKS-BLOOM 208 17:39 R F

   PUGET SOUND STOCKS FALL, LED BY PACCAR INC

   A3304 BC-FLORIDA-STOCKS-BLOOM 221 17:38 R F

   FLORIDA STOCKS FALL, LED BY INTERMEDIA COMMUNICATION

   A3305 BC-SOUTH-FLORIDA-STOCKS-BLOOM 213 17:38 R F

   SOUTH FLORIDA STOCKS FALL, LED BY CITRIX SYSTEMS INC

   A3303 BC-OHIO-STOCKS-BLOOM 207 17:38 R F

   OHIO STOCKS FALL, LED BY NACCO INDUSTRIES

   A3299 BC-WESTERN-DIGITAL-UPDATE4-BLOOM 592 17:36 R F

   WESTERN DIGITAL FALLS 28% ON WARNING OF LARGER LOSS (UPDATE4)

   A3301 BC-ARGENTINA-INDUSTRIAL-OUTPUT-BLOOM 393 17:37 R F

   ARGENTINE INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 6%, OFFICIAL SAYS (UPDATE1)

   A3297 BC-MINNESOTA-STOCKS-BLOOM 212 17:36 R F

   MINNESOTA STOCKS FALL, LED BY 3M

   A3298 BC-MAINE-STOCKS-BLOOM 210 17:36 R F

   MAINE STOCKS FALL, LED BY UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP

   A3295 BC-BLOOMBERG-AMALGAMATED-INDEX-BLOOM 301 17:35 R F

   BLOOMBERG AMALGAMATED INDEX RISES, LED BY AMER SHARED HOSP

   A3296 BC-BREAST-IMPLANTS-BLOOM 783 17:35 R F

   LEGISLATORS CALL FOR MORE RESEARCH ON RISKS OF SILICON IMPLANTS

   A3294 BC-CANAD-DOLLAR-REPEAT-BLOOM 902 17:34 R F

   CANADA DOLLAR CLOSES AT ALL-TIME LOW; BOC INTERVENES (REPEAT)

   A3291 BC-INDIANA-STOCKS-BLOOM 219 17:34 R F

   INDIANA STOCKS FALL, LED BY FRANKLIN ELECTRIC CO INC

   A3289 BC-ILLINOIS/IOWA-STOCKS-BLOOM 236 17:33 R F

   ILLINOIS/IOWA STOCKS FALL, LED BY EAGLE FOOD CENTERS

   A3288 BC-CENTRAL-MASSACHUSETTS-STOCKS-BLOOM 263 17:33 R F

   CENTRAL MASSACHUSETTS STOCKS FALL, LED BY STRATUS COMPUTER

   A3286 BC-CALIFORNIA-STOCKS-BLOOM 228 17:32 R F

   SILICON VALLEY STOCKS FALL, LED BY LINEAR TECHNOLOGY CORP

   A3287 BC-MISSOURI-STOCKS-BLOOM 210 17:33 R F

   ST. LOUIS STOCKS FALL, LED BY BELDEN INC

   A3284 BC-LA-DAILY-NEWS-STOCKS-BLOOM 203 17:32 R F

   LA DAILY NEWS STOCKS FALL, LED BY IHOP

   A3285 BC-SOCCER-BONDS-BLOOM 412 17:32 R F

   IFC TEMPTS SOCCER-CRAZY ITALIANS WITH BOND: FINANCING BUSINESS

   A3282 BC-TOP-TECH-INDEX-BLOOM 211 17:31 R F

   TOP TECHNOLOGY INDEX FALLS, LED BY LATTICE SEMICONDUCTOR CO

   A3283 BC-PHILADELPHIA-STOCKS-BLOOM 221 17:32 R F

   PHILADELPHIA STOCKS FALL, LED BY DUPONT

',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; FINANCIAL &LR;  stories that moved Wednesday, June
10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   FINANCIAL

   A4169 BC-JAPAN-MACHINERY-ORDERS-BLOOM 824 01:16 R F

   JAPAN'S MACHINERY ORDERS IN APRIL FELL 16.8% FROM MARCH

   A4165 BC-THAI-LAND-BLOOM 657 01:11 R F

   FOREIGN LAND OWNERSHIP LAW SHOULD BE EASED, THAI BOARD SAYS

   A4161 BC-JAPAN-STOCKS-BLOOM 833 01:02 R F

   JAPANESE STOCKS FALL, LED BY BANKS ON ASIAN CURRENCY CONCERNS

   A4155 BC-JAPAN-BONDS-BLOOM 721 00:55 R F

   JAPANESE BONDS FALL AS PLUNGING YEN RAISES FEARS ABOUT BANKS

   A4145 BC-GALLERIA-MAKEOVER-LADN 908 00:35 R F

   BIG CHANGES IN STORE FOR GALLERIA, EPICENTER OF `VALLEY GIRL'
FAME

   A4133 BC-CODELCO-SLOWDOWN-BLOOM 243 00:20 R F

   CODELCO WORKERS TO DECIDE FRIDAY WHETHER TO CONTINUE SLOWDOWN

   A4132 BC-TOKYO-CONDO-SALES-UPDATE1-BLOOM 719 00:18 R F

   TOKYO-AREA CONDOS FOR SALE ROSE 10.1% IN MAY ON YEAR (UPDATE1)

   A4129 BC-TOKYO-CONDO-SALES-BLOOM 682 00:12 R F

   TOKYO-AREA CONDOMINIUMS FOR SALE ROSE 10.1% IN MAY ON YEAR

   A4127 BC-LIBERTY-FINANCIAL-BLOOM 476 00:05 R F

   LIBERTY FINANCIAL AGREES TO BUY FUND MANAGER CRABBE HUSON

   A4110 BC-US-BONDS-ASIA-BLOOM 547 23:32 R F

   U.S. BONDS RISE AS ASIA'S SLUMP PROMPTS FLIGHT TO QUALITY

   A4106 BC-KIRIN-STOCK-FALLS-BLOOM 257 23:29 R F

   KIRIN FALLS AS LOW-MALT BREW WON'T OFFSET DROP IN REGULAR BEER

   A4095 BC-JAPAN-DOLLAR-BLOOM 713 23:22 R F

   DOLLAR REACHES 7-YEAR HIGH AGAINST YEN ON FALLING ASIAN STOCKS

   A4091 BC-JAPAN-CENTRAL-BANK-BLOOM 432 23:15 R F

   BANK OF JAPAN TODAY: BLOOMBERG CENTRAL BANK WATCH

   A3919 BC-PHILADELPHIA-SEAT-HOLDER-UPDATE1-BLOOM 457 23:11 R F

   LARGEST PHILADELPHIA SEAT HOLDER SUPPORTS MERGER (UPDATE1)

   A4037 BC-BOEING-ROLLOUT-SPI 650 23:07 U F

   BOEING'S NEWEST, SMALLEST PLANE ROLLS OFF THE LINE

   A3909 BC-CLINTON-APPROVAL-RATING-BLOOM 430 22:57 R F

   CLINTON JOB-APPROVAL RATING DIPS TO 60%, CBS/TIMES POLL SAYS

   A3902 BC-ALLIANCE-GOLDMAN-JAPAN-BLOOM 420 22:48 R F

   ALLIANCE, GOLDMAN TOPS IN STOCK-FUND INVESTMENT IN JAPAN IN MAY

   A3899 BC-HONDA-UK-PLANT-UPDATE1-BLOOM 229 22:47 R F

   HONDA TO INVEST 500 MILLION POUNDS IN U.K. CAR PLANT (UPDATE1)

   A3890 BC-KOO-KOO-ROO-LADN 780 22:37 R F

   TRENDY KOO KOO ROO CHICKEN CHAIN TO JOIN FAMILY FLOCK

   A3886 BC-CHO-HUNG-KIM-BLOOM 304 22:33 R F

   CHO HUNG BANK RISES 12% ON $200 MLN INVESTMENT BY YURIE'S KIM

   A3885 BC-JAPAN-STOCKS-MIDDAY-BLOOM 731 22:33 R F

   JAPANESE STOCKS FALL, LED BY BANKS ON ASIAN CURRENCY CONCERNS

   A3875 BC-JAPAN-BONDS-BLOOM 607 22:24 R F

   JAPANESE BONDS FALL ON ASIAN TURMOIL, WEAK DOMESTIC ECONOMY

   A3866 BC-BIZGLANCE-NYT 570 22:19 U F

   BUSINESS AT A GLANCE

   A3864 BC-JAPAN-DOLLAR-BLOOM 187 22:18 R F

   DOLLAR RISES TO 7-YEAR HIGH AGAINST YEN ON FALLING ASIAN STOCKS

   A3851 BC-ADVERTISING-NOTES-NYT 231 22:10 U F

   ADVERTISING NOTES

   A3849 BC-SOUTHEAST-ASIAN-CURRENCIES-RUPIAH-BLOOM 368 22:09 R F

   SOUTHEAST ASIAN CURRENCIES FALL; INDONESIAN RUPIAH PLUMMETS

   A3845 BC-COMPANIES-NYT 146 22:07 U F

   COMPANY NEWS

   A3841 BC-CREDITSUISSE-BRAZIL-NYT 628 22:05 U F

   SWISS-AMERICAN GROUP BUYS A TOP BRAZILIAN BANK

   A3839 BC-NYC-BUSINESS-BRIEFS-NYT 488 22:05 U F

   BUSINESS BRIEFS

   A3831 BC-INKTOMI-SFCHRON 612 21:59 R F

   (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service)

   A3832 BC-JAPAN-DOLLAR-BLOOM 640 22:00 R F

   DOLLAR LITTLE CHANGED NEAR 7-YEAR HIGH VS YEN ON ASIAN WOES

   A3828 BC-GRAPHICS-FILES 169 21:59 U F

   A3827 BC-WELLS-SFCHRON 868 21:58 R F

   (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service)

   A3825 BC-SHAPIRO-SFCHRON 1076 21:56 R F

   (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service)

   A3824 BC-DIGITAL-SFCHRON 708 21:55 R F

   (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service)

   A3816 BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT 1851 21:48 U F

   A3797 BC-FINBUDGET-SFCHRON 189 21:35 R F

   These are the stories The San Francisco Chronicle Business
section plans to move

   A3786 BC-EMPLOYEE-AIRFARES-340&AMP;ADD-NYT 931 21:29 U F

   GM, CHRYSLER TO RETAIN AIRLINE FOR UNLIMITED EMPLOYEE TRAVEL

   A3774 BC-JAPAN-KURODA-YEN-BLOOM 396 21:18 R F

   KURODA SAYS JAPAN AND G-7 WILL BOOST YEN IF NECESSARY (UPDATE1)

   A3761 BC-CLINTON-TOBACCO-UPDATE6-BLOOM 909 21:08 R F

   SENATE ATTACHES TAX CUT, ADVANCES ITS TOBACCO BILL (UPDATE6)

   A3762 BC-GM-STRIKE-ART-435&AMP;ADD-NYT 1201 21:09 U F

   (ATTN: Mich., Ohio, Kan., Ind., N.J., Canada, Idaho, Conn.)

   A3758 BC-IBM-TI-1STLD-TEX 835 21:06 R F

   (EDS: Adds tagline with Web note at end)

   A3756 BC-IBM-TI-TEX 811 21:04 R F

   IBM ELBOWS ITS WAY INTO A GROWING SPECIALTY CHIPS MARKET

   A3745 BC-OVERSEAS-SHIPHOLDING-BLOOM 205 20:56 R F

   OVERSEAS SHIPHOLDING FORMS VENTURE TO DELIVER BP'S ALASKAN OIL

   A3727 BC-PRODUCT-LIABILITY-NYT 241 20:47 U F

   (ATTN: Wash.)

   A3725 BC-GM-KOREA-BLOOM 225 20:45 R F

   GM CHAIRMAN SAYS `VERY INTERESTED' IN INVESTING IN KOREA

   A3720 BC-CREDIT-ART-690&AMP;ADD-NYT 1000 20:42 U F

   FED CHAIRMAN'S REPORT AIDS BOND-MARKET RALLY

   A3718 BC-JAPAN-BONDS-OPEN-BLOOM 560 20:41 R F

   JAPANESE BONDS FALL ON ASIAN ECONOMIC TURMOIL, WEAK ECONOMY

   A3710 BC-JAPAN-DOLLAR-BLOOM 480 20:38 R F

   DOLLAR FALLS FROM 7-YEAR HIGH VS YEN ON CONCERN G-7 MAY ACT

   A3708 BC-JAPAN-ECON-ART-525&AMP;ADD-NYT 964 20:36 U F

   JAPAN AGAIN CONSIDERS CLOSING WEAK BANKS

   A3705 NYTR-BUSINESS-BUDGET 2389 20:32 U F

   A3704 BC-HONEYWELL-AZR 564 20:32 R F

   HONEYWELL TO HIRE LAID-OFF MOTOROLA, IN TEL WORKERS

   A3698 BC-DELL-ADS-BLOOM 526 20:26 R F

   DELL COMPUTER ROLLS OUT NEW $70-MILLION GLOBAL AD CAMPAIGN

   A3695 BC-DELTA-MARKETING-CHIEF-NYT 498 20:25 U F

   (ATTN: Calif.)

   A3696 BC-JAPAN-STOCKS-OPEN-BLOOM 630 20:25 R F

   JAPANESE STOCKS FALL, LED BY BANKS ON ASIAN CURRENCY CONCERNS

   A3690 BC-SILICON-POLITICS-ART-2TAKES-NYT 859 20:22 U F

   (ATTN: Calif., Conn., Ohio)

   A3691 BC-SILICON-POLITICS-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 1130 20:23 U F

   WASHINGTON: were identified.

   A3687 BC-CLINTON-WAGE-UPDATE1-BLOOM 951 20:20 R F

   CLINTON URGES CONGRESS TO TOUGHEN WAGE BIAS PENALTIES (UPDATE1)

   A3678 BC-PERU-ECONOMY-UPDATE1-BLOOM 273 20:12 R F

   PERU'S BACA SAYS ECONOMY SHRUNK ABOUT 4% IN APRIL (UPDATE1)

   A3672 BC-JAPAN-MARKETPLACE-NYT 855 20:10 U F

   MARKET PLACE: THE YEN HAS ONE DIRECTION _ DOWN

   A3670 BC-FED-GREENSPAN-ART-507(2TAKES)-NYT 1047 20:09 U F

   GREENSPAN CALLS ECONOMY `AS IMPRESSIVE AS ANY' HE'S SEEN

   A3671 BC-FED-GREENSPAN-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 225 20:10 U F

   WASHINGTON: temporary factors.

   A3661 BC-AZTEC-TECHNOLOGY-BLOOM 239 20:04 R F

   AZTEC TECHNOLOGY CANCELS ITS PLANNED IPO, COMPLETES SPINOFF

   A3655 BC-EXIMBANK-MEXICO-BLOOM 262 20:00 R F

   U.S. EX-IM BANK ISSUES $581 MLN IN MEXICAN PROJECT GUARANTEES

   A3652 BC-HOUSE-BANKRUPTCY-BILL-BLOOM 807 19:58 R F

   BANKRUPTCY BILL SOUGHT BY CREDIT COMPANIES PASSES U.S. HOUSE

   A3646 BC-PHILADELPHIA-SEAT-HOLDER-BLOOM 407 19:56 R F

   LARGEST PHILADELPHIA SEAT HOLDER SUPPORTS AMEX MERGER

   A3642 BC-MUTUAL-FUND-BLOOM 845 19:53 R F

   MUNDER FACES OWNERSHIP AND PERFORMANCE QUESTIONS: MUTUAL FUNDS

   A3639 BC-CLINTON-TOBACCO-UPDATE5-BLOOM 995 19:51 R F

   SENATE ATTACHES ELECTION-YEAR TAX CUT TO TOBACCO BILL (UPDATE5)

   A3640 BC-ABC-AD-COLUMN-NYT 1057 19:52 U F

   ADVERTISING: ABC LIGHTENS UP ON LAST YEAR'S TV CAMPAIGN

   A3628 BC-WORLD-BANK-CHINA-BLOOM 278 19:48 R F

   CHINA RECEIVES $150 MLN FROM WORLD BANK FOR IRRIGATION PROJECT

   A3629 BC-CHC-UPDATE1-BLOOM 366 19:48 R F

   CHC WILL TRY AGAIN TO SELL ITS REPAIR UNIT IN IPO (UPDATE1)

   A3627 BC-DRUGS-ECONSCENE-NYT 824 19:47 U F

   ECONOMIC SCENE: WAR ON DRUGS IS UNDER ATTACK

   A3618 BC-IMF-THAILAND-BLOOM 429 19:46 R F

   IMF APPROVES $133 MLN INSTALLMENT TO THAILAND AFTER 3RD REVIEW

   A3621 BC-HELMSLEY-SALE-BLOOM 243 19:46 R F

   HELMSLEY SELLS STAKE IN INVESTMENT PROPERTIES FOR $100 MLN

   A3609 BC-US-WEST-QWEST-BLOOM 425 19:44 R F

   U S WEST ASKS COURT TO REVIEW ORDER HALTING MORE QWEST SALES

   A3608 BC-BUSINESS-LADN 162 19:44 U F

   Here are the business news stories the Los Angeles Daily News
plans to move

   A3604 BC-BEVERLY-ENTERPRISES-REPEAT-BLOOM 398 19:43 R F

   BEVERLY ENT. PERSUADES JUDGE TO CUT $95 MLN JURY AWARD (REPEAT)

   A3600 BC-DYNEX-AUTOBOND-BLOOM 464 19:40 R F

   DYNEX PROVIDES $300 MLN FINANCING TO AUTOBOND, MAY BUY LENDER

   A3598 BC-GLOBAL-COMMODITIES-BLOOM 1359 19:38 R F

   GLOBAL COMMODITIES: OIL FALLS AS NEED SEEN FOR MORE OUTPUT CUTS

   A3594 BC-FINFRONTS-NYT 555 19:37 U F

   (lb)

   A3591 BC-GM-SECOND-STRIKE-BLOOM 425 19:36 R F

   GM WORKERS WILL STAGE SECOND FLINT STRIKE, UNION MEMBER SAYS

   A3588 BC-VW-MEXICO-CREDIT-UPDATE1-BLOOM 362 19:34 R F

   MEXICO'S VW UNIT SEES FINANCING DOUBLING TO $100 MLN (UPDATE1)

   A3585 BC-CLINTON-CHINA-SPEECH-BLOOM 544 19:33 R F

   CLINTON TO DEFEND CHINA POLICY IN NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SPEECH

   A3586 BC-NAC-RE-BLOOM 165 19:33 R F

   NAC RE RAISES DIVIDEND 20%; NAMES NICHOLAS BROWN NEW CEO

   A3580 BC-MACMILLAN-BLOEDEL-UPDATE1-BLOOM 412 19:31 R F

   MACMILLAN BLOEDEL PLEDGES TO END CLEAR-CUTTING (UPDATE1)

   A3577 BC-COLORADO-STOCKS-CLOSE-UPDATE1-BLOOM 246 19:30 R F

   COLORADO STOCKS FALL A 2D DAY, LED BY LOCKHEED MARTIN (UPDATE1)

   A3576 BC-CONGRESS-CFTC-UPDATE1-BLOOM 850 19:30 R F

   LAWMAKERS RELUCTANT TO STOP CFTC REVIEW OF OTC SWAPS (UPDATE1)

   A3564 BC-GERMANY-IRAN-TALKS-BLOOM 328 19:27 R F

   IRANIAN, GERMAN FOREIGN MINISTERS MEET TO MEND POLITICAL TIES

   A3561 BC-COLOMBIA-STOCKS-UPDATE1-BLOOM 491 19:26 R F

   COLOMBIA STOCKS FALL, LED BY BANKS, INSURANCE SHARES (UPDATE1)

   A3562 BC-BUDGET-LATIN-AMERICA-ADD1-BLOOM 218 19:26 R F

   BLOOMBERG LATIN AMERICAN BUDGET FOR JUNE 10 (ADD1)

   A3557 BC-US-COMMODITIES-CLOSE2-BLOOM 998 19:24 R F

   U.S. COMMODITIES: OIL FALLS AS OUTPUT CUTS FALL SHORT (UPDATE2)

   A3553 BC-ASSET-BACKED-BONDS-BLOOM 469 19:22 R F

   ASSET-BACKED DEMAND STILL STRONG; SALLIE MAE SELLS $3.02 BLN

   A3554 BC-MEGO-MORTGAGE-BLOOM 401 19:23 R F

   MEGO MORTGAGE RECEIVES $30 MILLION FROM THREE INVESTORS

   A3552 BC-PERU-ECONOMY-BLOOM 198 19:22 R F

   PERU FINANCE MINISTER SAYS ECONOMY SHRINKS ABOUT 4% IN APRIL

   A3550 BC-CLINTON-TOBACCO-UPDATE4-BLOOM 950 19:21 R F

   CLINTON CONCESSIONS FAIL TO ADVANCE TOBACCO BILL (UPDATE4)

   A3547 BC-RIVER-STRIKE-BLOOM 474 19:19 R F

   MISSISSIPPI RIVER PILOTS TO END STRIKE AUG. 3 (REPEAT)

   A3548 BC-STOLT-COMEX-CEANIC-BLOOM 423 19:20 R F

   STOLT COMEX TO BUY CEANIC FOR $222 MLN, $20 A SHARE (REPEAT)

   A3543 BC-BEVERLY-ENTERPRISES-BLOOM 390 19:17 R F

   BEVERLY ENTERPRISES JURY AWARD CUT TO $3.1 MLN FROM $95.1 MLN

   A3541 BC-GINGRICH-BUDGET-OFFICE-UPDATE1-BLOOM 418 19:16 R F

   GINGRICH THREATENS CONGRESS'S BUDGET OFFICE FUNDING (UPDATE1)

   A3542 BC-VENEZUELA-OIL-UPDATE2-BLOOM 368 19:17 R F

   VENEZUELA SEES OIL INDUSTRY GROWTH OF 1% IN 1998 (UPDATE2)

   A3535 BC-MICHIGAN-STOCKS-REPEAT-BLOOM 401 19:15 R F

   MICHIGAN STOCKS: HERMAN MILLER, GENTEX LEAD INDEX LOWER

   A3536 BC-SOFTWARE-ISSUES-COX 552 19:15 U F

   A3530 BC-CANTOR-FITZGERALD-SUIT-BLOOM 207 19:14 R F

   SUIT AGAINST CANTOR FITZGERALD BY IRIS CANTOR IS DISMISSED

   A3528 BC-EX-IM-KOREA-BLOOM 250 19:13 R F

   U.S. EX-IM BANK TO EXPAND EXPORT CREDITS TO KOREA BY $2.25 BLN

   A3522 BC-LATIN-AMERICA-STOCKS-BLOOM 670 19:11 R F

   LATIN AMERICAN STOCKS: ASIA, LOWER OIL PRICES WEIGH ON SHARES

   A3519 BC-DONNA-KARAN-BLOOM 241 19:11 R F

   DONNA KARAN AND ESPRIT TO SELL INFANTS, TODDLERS CLOTHING

   A3520 BC-PRIMESTAR-SATELLITE-BLOOM 525 19:11 R F

   PRIMESTAR SEEKS WAY TO SETTLE FIGHT OVER SATELLITE ACQUISITION

   A3515 BC-AGRIUM-BLOOM 190 19:09 R F

   AGRIUM BUYS BACK 6.4 MILLION SHARES, HALF OF PLANNED PURCHASE

   A3511 BC-NORTH-AMERICA-ECONOMY-BLOOM 366 19:08 R F

   NORTH AMERICA ECONOMY FORECAST TO GROW 3.5% IN '98, 2.7% IN '99

   A3505 BC-ELIMINATE-MARKET-NYT 32 19:08 U F

   (pr)

   A3503 BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT 286 19:07 U F

   A3501 BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT 286 19:07 U F

   A3502 BC-ETHIOPIA-WORLD-BANK-UPDATE1-BLOOM 363 19:07 R F

   WORLD BANK LENDS ETHIOPIA $60 MLN FOR FARM RESEARCH (UPDATE1)

   A3493 BC-ALLMERICA-CITIZEN-UPDATE1-BLOOM 324 19:04 R F

   ALLMERICA, CITIZENS SEE $25.3 MLN 2ND-QTR STORM LOSS (UPDATE1)

   A3494 BC-CHEVRON-GASOLINE-BLOOM 525 19:04 R F

   CHEVRON WINS FIGHT TO STALL SAN FRANCISCO GASOLINE ORDINANCE

   A3489 BC-BRAZIL-STOCKS-UPDATE2-BLOOM 529 19:02 R F

   BRAZILIAN STOCKS FALL AS ASIAN DECLINES SPUR SELL-OFF (UPDATE2)

   A3477 BC-US-AIRWAYS-GATWICK-UPDATE1-BLOOM 511 18:56 R F

   U.S. DELAYS MOVE ON US AIRWAYS' U.K. ROUTE COMPLAINT (UPDATE1)

   A3478 BC-COLOMBIA-INDUSTRIAL-OUTPUT-BLOOM 564 18:56 R F

   COLOMBIA'S INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 19% IN MARCH ON HIGH DEMAND

   A3476 BC-DRUG-WHOLESALERS-UPDATE1-BLOOM 717 18:55 R F

   CARDINAL, MCKESSON BUYS SAID TO MEAN PRICE INCREASE (UPDATE1)

   A3474 BC-WILNER-PROFILE-BLOOM 689 18:55 R F

   `WOODY' WILNER, A DAVID AGAINST TOBACCO GOLIATHS, WINS AGAIN

   A3450 BC-SILICON-VALLEY-STOCKS-BLOOM 308 18:40 R F

   SILICON VALLEY STOCKS: LINEAR TECH, QUANTUM LEAD INDEX'S FALL

   A3444 BC-UNITED-HEALTHCARE-UPDATE2-BLOOM 385 18:35 R F

   UNITED HEALTHCARE COMFORTABLE WITH 1998 ESTIMATES (UPDATE2)

   A3442 BC-US-GRAINS-CLOSE-REPEAT-BLOOM 447 18:34 R F

   SOYBEANS RISE ON SPECULATION OF DEMAND FOR FOOD OIL (REPEAT)

   A3443 BC-CABLE&AMP;WIRELESS-MCI-UPDATE1-BLOOM 695 18:35 R F

   CABLE &AMP; WIRELESS FILES COMPLAINT, SEEKS INJUNCTION (UPDATE1)

   A3440 BC-LILCO-MARKETSPAN-UPDATE1-BLOOM 845 18:33 R F

   MARKETSPAN SUED OVER COMPENSATION PAID BY LILCO (UPDATE1)

   A3441 BC-TOBACCO-FLORIDA-UPDATE6-BLOOM 965 18:33 R F

   B.A.T'S BROWN &AMP; WILLIAMSON LOSES FLORIDA TOBACCO SUIT (UPDATE6)

   A3437 BC-ENCRYPTION-UPDATE-3-BLOOM 714 18:32 R F

   HIGH-TECH CHIEFS FAIL TO REACH ENCRYPTION COMPROMISE (UPDATE3)

   A3434 BC-MEDITRUST-LAQUINTA-BLOOM 368 18:31 R F

   MEDITRUST, LA QUINTA SET TERMS FOR $2.73 BILLION PURCHASE

   A3432 BC-BOEING-BLOOM 153 18:30 R F

   BOEING SAYS ITS PROFIT MARGIN WILL REMAIN UNDER PRESSURE

   A3430 BC-CLINTON-TOBACCO-UPDATE3-BLOOM 935 18:29 R F

   CLINTON CONCESSIONS FAIL TO ADVANCE TOBACCO BILL (UPDATE3)

   A3419 BC-CORPORATE-BOND-CLOSE-REPEAT-BLOOM 992 18:25 R F

   CORPORATE BONDS: EQUITY OFFICE PROPERTIES LEADS SALES (REPEAT)

   A3411 BC-GINGRICH-TAXES-BLOOM 540 18:23 R F

   GINGRICH TO PROPOSE LOWERING CAPITAL GAINS, INHERITANCE TAXES

   A3407 BC-VENEZUELA-CRYSTALLEX-UPDATE1-BLOOM 263 18:22 R F

   VENEZUELAN COURT TO DECIDE ON HEARING CRYSTALLEX CASE (UPDATE1)

   A3408 BC-FCC-SET-TOP-BOXES-BLOOM 764 18:22 R F

   FCC TO VOTE ON PLAN REQUIRING CABLE BOXES TO BE SOLD IN STORES

   A3404 BC-COSTA-RICA-ENERGY-BLOOM 222 18:22 R F

   COSTA RICAN GEOTHERMAL PLANT BOOSTED BY PRIVATE INVESTMENT

   A3405 BC-CONNECTICUT-STOCKS-CLOSE-BLOOM 265 18:22 R F

   CONNECTICUT STOCKS: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES DRIVES INDEX DOWN

   A3400 BC-CORPORATE-BOND-CLOSE-BLOOM 998 18:20 R F

   CORPORATE BONDS: EQUITY OFFICE PROPERTIES, TEXACO LEAD SALES

   A3403 BC-IBM-CUSTOM-CHIPS-UPDATE2-BLOOM 741 18:21 R F

   IBM TO BOOST CUSTOM CHIPS FOR PHONES, OTHER MARKETS (UPDATE2)

   A3398 BC-US-AIRWAYS-GATWICK-BLOOM 490 18:20 R F

   U.S. DELAYS MOVE ON US AIRWAYS COMPLAINT IN U.K. ROUTE DISPUTE

   A3397 BC-GEICO-BERKSHIRE-BLOOM 412 18:19 R F

   GAP, TUPPERWARE STAKES ACQUIRED BY BERKSHIRE'S GEICO UNIT

   A3392 BC-KUWAIT-IRAQ-BLOOM 257 18:18 R F

   KUWAIT ASKS FOR FURTHER UN HELP IN MAINTAINING IRAQ BORDER

   A3395 BC-GOLDMAN-SACHS-CORRECT-BLOOM 743 18:18 R F

   GOLDMAN'S DECISION ON AN IPO MAY BE PREDETERMINED (CORRECT)

   A3389 BC-KOO-KOO-ROO-UPDATE2-BLOOM 804 18:17 R F

   KOO KOO ROO TO BE ACQUIRED BY FAMILY RESTAURANTS (UPDATE2)

   A3390 BC-MICHIGAN-STOCKS-CLOSE-BLOOM 400 18:17 R F

   MICHIGAN STOCKS: HERMAN MILLER, GENTEX LEAD INDEX LOWER

   A3388 BC-SHOPPING.COM-EXECUTIVE-UPDATE1-BLOOM 638 18:16 R F

   SHOPPING.COM'S EX-CEO GOES PART TIME, GETS PAY RAISE (UPDATE1)

   A3383 BC-MCMORAN-UPDATE1-BLOOM 189 18:15 R F

   MCMORAN HOLDINGS RAISED BY ALPINE TO 11.2% FROM 10.1% (UPDATE1)

   A3386 BC-MONEY-MARKET-YIELDS-BLOOM 327 18:15 R F

   MONEY MARKET YIELDS MOSTLY FALL; TAXABLE ASSETS RISE TO RECORD

   A3382 BC-INKTOMI-SHARES-UPDATE3-BLOOM 647 18:14 R F

   INKTOMI CORP. SHARES DOUBLE ON NASDAQ DEBUT (UPDATE3)

   A3379 BC-KEYRATES-NYT 168 18:14 U F

   KEY RATES

   A3367 BC-MEXICO-STOCKS-UPDATE1-BLOOM 623 18:08 R F

   MEXICO STOCKS PLUNGE FOR BIGGEST DROP IN FIVE MONTHS (UPDATE1)

   A3370 BC-GOLD-MARKET--CLOSE-BLOOM 364 18:09 R F

   GOLD LITTLE CHANGED AS TRADERS SEEK ECB INFORMATION (UPDATE1)

   A3366 BC-AURORA-FOODS-IPO-BLOOM 472 18:08 R F

   AURORA FOODS TO SELL 14.5 MLN SHARES AT $20-$23 EACH IN IPO

   A3361 BC-BUSINESS-BJT11-COX 641 18:05 R F

   A3356 BC-TESTDRIVE11-COX 622 18:04 R F

   A3357 BC-THE-MECHANIC11-COX 665 18:05 R F

   A3359 BC-FIDELITY-OFFSHORE-MARKETING-BLOOM 396 18:04 R F

   FIDELITY LOOKS TO TAP OFFSHORE MARKET OF WEALTHY INVESTORS

   A3355 BC-SHARP-DRIVING11-COX 472 18:02 R F

   A3351 BC-NEIMAN11-COX 331 18:00 R F

   A3352 BC-GOLDMAN-SACHS-IPO-BLOOM 745 18:00 R F

   GOLDMAN'S DECISION ON AN IPO MAY BE PREDETERMINED BY THE MARKET

   A3348 BC-DUPONT-TRINIDAD-BLOOM 908 17:58 R F

   DUPONT JOINT VENTURE PLANS PETROCHEMICAL PLANT IN TRINIDAD

   A3349 BC-HOLSENDOLPH-COLUMN11-COX 944 17:59 R F

   A3346 BC-ANALYST-ACTION-BLOOM 1345 17:56 R F

   RATING CHANGES, NEW COVERAGE ON NORTH AMERICAN STOCKS

   A3345 BC-AIRPORT-FOOD11-COX 493 17:56 R F

   A3341 BC-TEXAS-INSTRUMENTS-UPDATE3-BLOOM 737 17:53 R F

   TEXAS INSTRUMENTS FALLS 6% AS IBM INVADES CHIP TURF (UPDATE3)

   A3339 BC-SUNBEAM-UPDATE1-BLOOM 713 17:52 R F

   SUNBEAM STAKE OF 1.7% REPORTED BY EQUITABLE TO SEC (UPDATE1)

   A3340 BC-NOVARTIS-CORRECT-BLOOM 641 17:52 R F

   NOVARTIS SEES `MODEST' SALES GROWTH IN DRUGS SALES (CORRECT)

   A3338 BC-BREAST-IMPLANTS-REPEAT-BLOOM 793 17:51 R F

   LAWMAKERS SEEK RESEARCH ON RISKS OF SILICONE IMPLANTS (REPEAT)

   A3335 BC-DSM-NOVO-NORDISK-BLOOM 296 17:51 R F

   DSM SUES NOVO NORDISK OVER INDUSTRIAL ENZYMES TECHNOLOGY

   A3336 BC-ALLAMERICA-CITIZENS-LOSSES-BLOOM 147 17:51 R F

   ALLMERICA, CITIZENS CORP. SEE $25.3 MLN 2ND-QTR STORM LOSSES

   A3333 BC-MYLAN-LABS-UPDATE1-BLOOM 249 17:50 R F

   MYLAN LABORATORIES' SULFAMYLON RECEIVES FDA APPROVAL (UPDATE1)

   A3334 BC-MORTGAGE-RATES-BLOOM 373 17:50 R F

   MORTGAGE RATES FALL IN WEEK; 30-YEAR FIXED LOANS AT 7.06%

   A3329 BC-PERU-STOCKS-UPDATE1-BLOOM 367 17:49 R F

   PERU STOCKS FALL AS ASIAN MARKETS UNSETTLE INVESTORS (UPDATE1)

   A3327 BC-VENEZUELA-STOCKS-BLOOM 509 17:48 R F

   VENEZUELAN STOCKS FALL TO 19-MONTH LOW AS OIL FALLS (UPDATE1)

   A3328 BC-YEAR2000-INVESTORS-HNS 833 17:49 U F

   YEAR 2000 COMPUTER GLITCH COULD THREATEN MILLIONS OF INVESTORS

   A3325 BC-UTAH-STOCKS-BLOOM 206 17:47 R F

   UTAH STOCKS FALL, LED BY THIOKOL CORP.

   A3322 BC-ALABAMA-STOCKS-BLOOM 212 17:46 R F

   ALABAMA STOCKS FALL, LED BY USX - U.S. STEEL

   A3324 BC-ECONOMY-US-UPDATE4-BLOOM 1070 17:47 R F

   U.S. ECONOMY: GREENSPAN SEES SLOW GROWTH, TAME PRICES (UPDATE4)

   A3321 BC-PPG-SHARES-BLOOM 231 17:46 R F

   PPG SHARES FALL 4.1% ON CONCERN ABOUT CUSTOMER GM'S STRIKE

   A3317 BC-ILLINOIS-STOCKS-BLOOM 206 17:45 R F

   ILLINOIS STOCKS FALL, LED BY CATERPILLAR

   A3315 BC-TOBACCO-FLORIDA-UPDATE5-BLOOM 861 17:43 R F

   B.A.T'S BROWN &AMP; WILLIAMSON LOSES FLORIDA TOBACCO SUIT (UPDATE5)

   A3308 BC-PUGET-SOUND-STOCKS-BLOOM 208 17:39 R F

   PUGET SOUND STOCKS FALL, LED BY PACCAR INC

   A3304 BC-FLORIDA-STOCKS-BLOOM 221 17:38 R F

   FLORIDA STOCKS FALL, LED BY INTERMEDIA COMMUNICATION

   A3305 BC-SOUTH-FLORIDA-STOCKS-BLOOM 213 17:38 R F

   SOUTH FLORIDA STOCKS FALL, LED BY CITRIX SYSTEMS INC

   A3303 BC-OHIO-STOCKS-BLOOM 207 17:38 R F

   OHIO STOCKS FALL, LED BY NACCO INDUSTRIES

   A3299 BC-WESTERN-DIGITAL-UPDATE4-BLOOM 592 17:36 R F

   WESTERN DIGITAL FALLS 28% ON WARNING OF LARGER LOSS (UPDATE4)

   A3301 BC-ARGENTINA-INDUSTRIAL-OUTPUT-BLOOM 393 17:37 R F

   ARGENTINE INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 6%, OFFICIAL SAYS (UPDATE1)

   A3297 BC-MINNESOTA-STOCKS-BLOOM 212 17:36 R F

   MINNESOTA STOCKS FALL, LED BY 3M

   A3298 BC-MAINE-STOCKS-BLOOM 210 17:36 R F

   MAINE STOCKS FALL, LED BY UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP

   A3295 BC-BLOOMBERG-AMALGAMATED-INDEX-BLOOM 301 17:35 R F

   BLOOMBERG AMALGAMATED INDEX RISES, LED BY AMER SHARED HOSP

   A3296 BC-BREAST-IMPLANTS-BLOOM 783 17:35 R F

   LEGISLATORS CALL FOR MORE RESEARCH ON RISKS OF SILICON IMPLANTS

   A3294 BC-CANAD-DOLLAR-REPEAT-BLOOM 902 17:34 R F

   CANADA DOLLAR CLOSES AT ALL-TIME LOW; BOC INTERVENES (REPEAT)

   A3291 BC-INDIANA-STOCKS-BLOOM 219 17:34 R F

   INDIANA STOCKS FALL, LED BY FRANKLIN ELECTRIC CO INC

   A3289 BC-ILLINOIS/IOWA-STOCKS-BLOOM 236 17:33 R F

   ILLINOIS/IOWA STOCKS FALL, LED BY EAGLE FOOD CENTERS

   A3288 BC-CENTRAL-MASSACHUSETTS-STOCKS-BLOOM 263 17:33 R F

   CENTRAL MASSACHUSETTS STOCKS FALL, LED BY STRATUS COMPUTER

   A3286 BC-CALIFORNIA-STOCKS-BLOOM 228 17:32 R F

   SILICON VALLEY STOCKS FALL, LED BY LINEAR TECHNOLOGY CORP

   A3287 BC-MISSOURI-STOCKS-BLOOM 210 17:33 R F

   ST. LOUIS STOCKS FALL, LED BY BELDEN INC

   A3284 BC-LA-DAILY-NEWS-STOCKS-BLOOM 203 17:32 R F

   LA DAILY NEWS STOCKS FALL, LED BY IHOP

   A3285 BC-SOCCER-BONDS-BLOOM 412 17:32 R F

   IFC TEMPTS SOCCER-CRAZY ITALIANS WITH BOND: FINANCING BUSINESS

   A3282 BC-TOP-TECH-INDEX-BLOOM 211 17:31 R F

   TOP TECHNOLOGY INDEX FALLS, LED BY LATTICE SEMICONDUCTOR CO

   A3283 BC-PHILADELPHIA-STOCKS-BLOOM 221 17:32 R F

   PHILADELPHIA STOCKS FALL, LED BY DUPONT

'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0035 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 03:10 ',
			header: '
A4235 &Cx1f; taf-z
r k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-COMMENTARY-SLUGLIST-C     06-11 0388
',
			slug: ' BC-COMMENTARY-SLUGLIST-CLOSER ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here is a list of commentary items stories that moved Wednesday,
June 10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   COMMENTARY

   A3901 BC-EDIT-REPUBS-FEC-NYT 345 22:48 U K

   EDITORIAL: PUNISHING COMPETENCE AT THE FEC

   A3883 BC-EDIT-STATES-POLLUTE-NYT 508 22:31 U K

   EDITORIAL: TIME TO MUSCLE STATE PULLUTERS

   A3870 BC-EDIT-NY-BUDGET-NYT 435 22:21 U K

   EDITORIAL: THE GAME OF BUDGET GOTCHA

   A3869 BC-EDIT-NY-LILCO-NYT 466 22:21 U K

   EDITORIAL: CATACOSINOS CASHES IN

   A3795 BC-COX-TEXAS-HATE-MURRAY 436 21:34 U K

   A3715 BC-THOMPSON-COLUMN-TEX 785 20:40 R K

   A REPUBLICAN TRIUMPH IS POSSIBLE, BUT ONLY IF ...

   A3699 BC-THOMPSON-COLUMN-TEX 763 20:26 R K

   UNFORTUNATELY, SENTENCE GIVEN TO NICHOLS IS LONG, NOT LETHAL

   A3624 BC-SAFIRE-COLUMN-NYT 739 19:47 U K

   ESSAY: SHIFTING OPINION ON MISSILE DEFENSE (ja)

   A3415 BC-GRIMES-HUMOR-COLUMN-$ADV12-NYT 630 18:24 A K

   GETTING A HEAD ON STRAIGHT

   A3326 BC-MURRAY-COLUMN11-COX 511 17:48 U K

   A3063 BC-THOMPSON-COLUMN-$ADV14-HNS 959 15:54 R K

   (For release Sunday, June 14)

   A3003 NYTR-EDIT-HESTON 877 15:26 R K

   A2891 BC-RELIGION-COLUMN-BOS 671 14:57 U K

   LAWYERS WORK TO MAKE SPIRITUAL VALUES PART OF THEIR PROFESSION

   A2875 BC-NYHAN-COLUMN-BOS 953 14:48 U K

   CAN MONEY STILL BUY A CONGRESSIONAL SEAT IN MASSACHUSETTS?

   A2867 BC-HEADWATERS-DEAL-HNS 624 14:44 R K

   CALIFORNIA'S HEADWATERS FOREST: TOO MUCH FOR AN INCOMPLETE DEAL

   A2784 BC-McNAMARA-COLUMN-BOS 767 13:58 U K

   CLEAN AIR NEEDED FOR THIS COURTHOUSE

   A2722 BC-BC-GLASS-COLUMN-$adv14-cox 602 13:29 S K

   A2550 BC-DEVELOPING-BOX-COX- 234 12:50 R K

   -$ADV21

   A2543 BC-CLINTON-DEVELOPING-CO 1896 12:45 R K

   -$ADV21-1400&AMP;ADD

   A2388 BC-COMMENTARY-BJT11-COX 339 11:25 R K

   A2379 BC-NETHAWAY-COLUMN11-COX 655 11:20 R K

   A2380 BC-REAL-LIFE11-COX 505 11:21 R K

   A2378 BC-MCCARTY-COLUMN11-COX 585 11:20 R K

   A2371 BC-BORDERS-COLUMN11-COX 842 11:17 R K

',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here is a list of commentary items stories that moved Wednesday,
June 10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   COMMENTARY

   A3901 BC-EDIT-REPUBS-FEC-NYT 345 22:48 U K

   EDITORIAL: PUNISHING COMPETENCE AT THE FEC

   A3883 BC-EDIT-STATES-POLLUTE-NYT 508 22:31 U K

   EDITORIAL: TIME TO MUSCLE STATE PULLUTERS

   A3870 BC-EDIT-NY-BUDGET-NYT 435 22:21 U K

   EDITORIAL: THE GAME OF BUDGET GOTCHA

   A3869 BC-EDIT-NY-LILCO-NYT 466 22:21 U K

   EDITORIAL: CATACOSINOS CASHES IN

   A3795 BC-COX-TEXAS-HATE-MURRAY 436 21:34 U K

   A3715 BC-THOMPSON-COLUMN-TEX 785 20:40 R K

   A REPUBLICAN TRIUMPH IS POSSIBLE, BUT ONLY IF ...

   A3699 BC-THOMPSON-COLUMN-TEX 763 20:26 R K

   UNFORTUNATELY, SENTENCE GIVEN TO NICHOLS IS LONG, NOT LETHAL

   A3624 BC-SAFIRE-COLUMN-NYT 739 19:47 U K

   ESSAY: SHIFTING OPINION ON MISSILE DEFENSE (ja)

   A3415 BC-GRIMES-HUMOR-COLUMN-$ADV12-NYT 630 18:24 A K

   GETTING A HEAD ON STRAIGHT

   A3326 BC-MURRAY-COLUMN11-COX 511 17:48 U K

   A3063 BC-THOMPSON-COLUMN-$ADV14-HNS 959 15:54 R K

   (For release Sunday, June 14)

   A3003 NYTR-EDIT-HESTON 877 15:26 R K

   A2891 BC-RELIGION-COLUMN-BOS 671 14:57 U K

   LAWYERS WORK TO MAKE SPIRITUAL VALUES PART OF THEIR PROFESSION

   A2875 BC-NYHAN-COLUMN-BOS 953 14:48 U K

   CAN MONEY STILL BUY A CONGRESSIONAL SEAT IN MASSACHUSETTS?

   A2867 BC-HEADWATERS-DEAL-HNS 624 14:44 R K

   CALIFORNIA'S HEADWATERS FOREST: TOO MUCH FOR AN INCOMPLETE DEAL

   A2784 BC-McNAMARA-COLUMN-BOS 767 13:58 U K

   CLEAN AIR NEEDED FOR THIS COURTHOUSE

   A2722 BC-BC-GLASS-COLUMN-$adv14-cox 602 13:29 S K

   A2550 BC-DEVELOPING-BOX-COX- 234 12:50 R K

   -$ADV21

   A2543 BC-CLINTON-DEVELOPING-CO 1896 12:45 R K

   -$ADV21-1400&AMP;ADD

   A2388 BC-COMMENTARY-BJT11-COX 339 11:25 R K

   A2379 BC-NETHAWAY-COLUMN11-COX 655 11:20 R K

   A2380 BC-REAL-LIFE11-COX 505 11:21 R K

   A2378 BC-MCCARTY-COLUMN11-COX 585 11:20 R K

   A2371 BC-BORDERS-COLUMN11-COX 842 11:17 R K

'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0036 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 03:11 ',
			header: '
A4237 &Cx1f; taf-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SPORTS-SLUGLIST-CLOSE     06-11 1770
',
			slug: ' BC-SPORTS-SLUGLIST-CLOSER ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; SPORTS &LR;  stories that moved Wednesday, June
10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   SPORTS

   A4193 BC-GLF-BUICK-WESTWOOD-NYT 680 02:04 U S

   WESTWOOD ARRIVING AS THREAT IN BUICK

   A4182 BC-BBO-DODGERS-LADN 685 01:45 R S

   DODGERS BEAT A'S

   A4179 BC-BKN-BULLS-TRIO-BLOOM 717 01:26 R S

   BULLS' SUPERSTAR TRIO MAKES THE DIFFERENCE IN GAME 4 OF FINALS

   A4178 BC-finals lede-HNS 934 01:22 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A4176 BC-FRAN BLINEBURY-HNS 927 01:20 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A4171 BC-SOC-COLUMN-VECSEY-SPI 783 01:16 U S

   GOOD MORNING, PLEASE PASS THE WORLD CUP

   A4154 BC-BBN--Astros-Tigers-HNS 864 00:54 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A4142 BC-GEN-NORTHRIDGE-LADN 1548 00:33 R S

   CAL STATE NORTHRIDGE BACK FROM BRINK

   A4143 BC-BBN-DODGERS-NOTES-LADN 716 00:34 R S

   HOLLANDSWORTH SURGERY TODAY

   A4138 BC-BBA-RANGERS-SALE-TEX 626 00:25 R S

   IT'S OFFICIAL AND UNANIMOUS: HICKS OWNS RANGERS

   A4134 BC-BKN-ARATON-COLUMN-NYT 797 00:22 U S

   SPORTS COLUMN: KUKOC IS PEACEMAKER FOR BIG 3 TO CONTINUE

   A4130 BC-BKN-BULSS-JAZZ-NYT 829 00:16 U S

   BULLS TOP JAZZ 86-82, TAKE 3-GAME LEAD

   A4118 BC-BBA-YANKS-EXPOS-NYT 1106 23:39 U S

   IRABU AND YANKS BEAT EXPOS, 6-2

   A4117 BC-kj scuttlebutt-HNS 740 23:38 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A4116 BC-BKN-CLIPPERS-BIBBY-LADN 513 23:36 R S

   CLIPPERS TAKE SNEAK PEEK AT BIBBY

   A4114 BC-HKN-FINALS-NOTEBOOK-NYT 474 23:36 U S

   `IT'S JUST HOCKEY,' HUNTER SAYS OF ROUGH STUFF

   A4111 BC-OUT-ARIZONA-PREDATORS-AZR 1043 23:32 R S

   EL NINO BRINGS PREDATORY FEAST

   A4101 BC-BBO-CLUB-LEADERS-AZR 1178 23:27 R S

   LEADERS NEEDED FOR SUCCESS

   A4098 BC-BBN-MCGWIRE-BP-TIPS-AZR 708 23:26 R S

   BEST SHOW IS BEFORE GAME WITH MCGWIRE

   A4096 BC-BBO-GOMEZ-NOTEBOOK-AZR 794 23:24 R S

   HOW TO STOP THOSE MESSY FIGHTS?

   A4097 BC-BBN-DBACKS-MINORS-NOTES-AZR 556 23:25 R S

   HORRIBLE RE CORDS RUN IN MINORS, TOO

   A4094 BC-World Cup-HNS 942 23:22 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A4084 BC-BKW-MERCURY-OPENER-AZR 699 23:12 R S

   MERCURY AFRAID OF SLOW START

   A4086 BC-BKW-ACKERMAN-Q&AMP;A-AZR 704 23:12 R S

   EXPECTATIONS RISE IN YEAR 2 FOR WNBA

   A3880 BC-NY-YANKEE-STADIUM-525&AMP;ADD-NYT 1085 22:29 U S

   VALLONE INTRODUCES STADIUM REFERENDUM BILL

   A3876 BC-swoopes returns-HNS 761 22:26 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3871 BC-SOC-WORLD-FRENCH-LADN 629 22:21 R S

   REFLECTIONS ON OWN GOALS

   A3872 BC-World Cup-HNS 531 22:22 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3865 BC-SOC-WORLD-ITALY-LADN 613 22:18 R S

   BAGGIO BACK, SEEKING WORLD CUP GLORY

   A3862 BC-BKW-SPARKS-LADN 712 22:16 R S

   SPARKS BEGIN SECOND SEASON

   A3834 BC-BKC-STJOHNS-NYT 723 22:01 U S

   ST. JOHNS CLOSE TO SIGNING JARVIS AS COACH

   A3823 BC-BBN-METS-NYT 894 21:54 U S

   PIAZZA CONVINCING METS HE KNOWS HOW TO CATCH

   A3799 BC-NBA-NOTEBOOK10-COX 449 21:36 U S

   A3801 BC-BBN-METS-DEVILRAYS-NYT 749 21:36 U S

   METS HANG ON TO DEFEAT DEVILRAYS, 3-2

   A3789 BC-NBA-NOTEBOOK10-COX 449 21:30 U S

   A3788 BC-CUPBIOS-COX 195 21:30 U S

   A3784 BC-CAR-STURBIN-TEX 1970 21:27 R S

   CHILDRESS ROLLS DICE BY TRADING ACE MECHANICS

   A3741 BC-BBA-YANKS-HERNANDEZ-NYT 1095 20:53 U S

   EL DUQUE BAFFLES BOTH FRIENDS AND FOE

   A3742 BC-BKW-WNBA-SEASON-NYT 613 20:55 U S

   IT'S SHOWTIME FOR SISTERS OF THE NBA

   A3731 BC-BKN-KRIKORIAN-LADN 891 20:49 R S

   WHATEVER HAPPENED TO JERRY BUSS?

   A3713 BC-BBN-METS-CARDINALS-TRADE-BLOOM 211 20:39 R S

   METS ACQUIRE WAYNE KIRBY FROM CARDINALS FOR SHAWN GILBERT

   A3694 BC-GOLF-KIDS-NYT 915 20:24 U S

   PROGRAM HELPS KIDS GET A FIRST SWING AT GOLF

   A3692 BC-TEN-U.S.-DAVIS-CUP-BLOOM 279 20:23 R S

   AGASSI, COURIER, MARTIN AND RENEBERG ON U.S. DAVIS CUP TEAM

   A3673 BC-FBN-LIONS-SIGNINGS-BLOOM 217 20:11 R S

   DETROIT LIONS RE-SIGN FREE AGENTS DAVID SLOAN, LARRY THARPE

   A3660 BC-BKW-SPARKS-ROUSSEAU-LADN 826 20:03 R S

   ROUSSEAU BEGINS SECOND SEASON WITH SPARKS

   A3657 BC-SOC-WORLD-CUP-RDP-BLOOM 478 20:02 R S

   BRAZIL WINS WORLD CUP OPENER 2-1; NORWAY AND MOROCCO TIE 2-2

   A3597 BC-BKN-ALL-INTERVIEW-LIST-BLOOM 186 19:38 R S

   1997-98 NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION ALL-INTERVIEW TEAMS

   A3592 BC-OUT-CANOE-LADN 867 19:36 R S

   A TRYING TRIP DOWN MEMORY LANE

   A3593 BC-OUT-CANOE-SIDE-LADN 215 19:37 R S

   WHERE TO ROW, ROW A CANOE

   A3584 BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-1STLD-WRITETHRU-NYT 978 19:32 U S

   (Eds.: Updates to include score on Norway-Morocco game)

   A3581 BC-BKN-WILLIAMS-ALL-INTERVIEW-BLOOM 232 19:31 R S

   NETS' JAYSON WILLIAMS LEADS 1997-98 NBA ALL-INTERVIEW TEAM

   A3566 BC-LADN-SPORTS--BUDGET 331 19:28 R S

   The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following sports
stories for use by

   A3537 BC-FBN-WHITE-STUDIO-BLOOM 340 19:16 R S

   PACKERS' REGGIE WHITE IN GROUP THAT PLANS TO BUILD FILM STUDIO

   A3510 BC-HKN-BETTMAN-REFEREES-BLOOM 187 19:08 R S

   NHL COMMISSIONER BETTMAN LIKES CONCEPT OF TWO-REFEREE SYSTEM

   A3438 BC-HKN-GAME-1-RATINGS-BLOOM 373 18:32 R S

   FOX'S GAME 1 STANLEY CUP RATINGS DOWN 18 PERCENT FROM LAST YEAR

   A3431 BC-BKC-RULE-CHANGE-BLOOM 342 18:29 R S

   NCAA COMMITTEE CHANGES BASKETBALL HELD-BALL RULE

   A3422 BC-SPORTSNETBRITE-BJT11-COX 506 18:26 U S

   A3362 BC-SPORTS-BJT11-COX 336 18:06 R S

   A3353 BC-PINKNEY-ARENALEAGUE11-COX 1295 18:01 R S

   A3354 BC-REDS11-COX 537 18:02 R S

   A3350 BC-NCAA-PROCEDURE11-COX 464 17:59 R S

   A3343 BC-FBN-CHARGERS-MIMS-BLOOM 168 17:55 R S

   CHARGERS SIGN DEFENSIVE END CHRIS MIMS TO ONE-YEAR CONTRACT

   A3302 BC-SOC-WORLD-CUP-BOND-BLOOM 413 17:37 R S

   IFC TEMPTS SOCCER-CRAZY ITALIANS WITH BOND: FINANCING BUSINESS

   A3292 BC-BBN-GIANTS-KENT-BLOOM 136 17:34 R S

   GIANTS PLACE KENT ON DISABLED LIST WITH SPRAINED RIGHT KNEE

   A3248 BC-FBN-DOLPHINS-JONES-BLOOM 187 17:21 R S

   MIAMI DOLPHINS SIGN FREE AGENT LINEBACKER ROBERT JONES

   A3216 BC-HKN-SENATORS-HOSSA-BLOOM 147 17:04 R S

   OTTAWA SENATORS PROSPECT MARIAN HOSSA UNDERGOES KNEE SURGERY

   A3211 BC-SPORTS-BUDGET-BLOOM 380 17:01 R S

   BLOOMBERG SPORTS BUDGET FOR JUNE 10

   A3212 BC-SOC-VECSEY-COLUMN-NYT 777 17:01 U S

   SPORTS COLUMN: WORLD'S TEAM KICKS OFF WORLD CUP

   A3206 BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-650&AMP;ADD-NYT 958 16:57 U S

   DEFENDING CHAMPION BRAZIL STRUGGLES IN CUP OPENER, A 2-1 WIN
OVER SCOTLAND

   A3205 BC-HKN-BLAKE-BOWMAN-BLOOM 838 16:57 R S

   RED WINGS' BOWMAN ONE RING AWAY FROM TYING MENTOR TOE BLAKE

   A3132 BC-HKN-BOWMAN-BLAKE-BLOOM 838 16:26 R S

   RED WINGS' BOWMAN ONE RING AWAY FROM TYING MENTOR TOE BLAKE

   A3096 BC-HKN-PANTHERS-DOELL-BLOOM 172 16:11 R S

   PANTHERS SIGN DEFENSEMAN CURTIS DOELL TO THREE-YEAR CONTRACT

   A3050 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:48 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3049 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:47 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3047 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:46 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3043 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:45 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3041 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:43 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3039 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:42 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3037 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:41 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3034 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:39 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3032 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:38 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3019 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:32 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3016 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:31 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3013 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:29 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3012 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:28 U S

   Attn Sports Editor:

   A3008 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:27 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3005 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:26 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A2994 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:24 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A2964 BC-BKC-HOWARD-COACH-BLOOM 167 15:19 R S

   HOWARD UNIVERSITY NAMES KIRK SAULNY BASKETBALL COACH

   A2961 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:18 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A2925 BC-BBN-MCGWIRE-CHARITY-BLOOM 900 15:10 R S

   MCGWIRE'S COMMITMENT TO CAUSE DIDN'T END WITH WRITING A CHECK

   A2881 BC-FBN-49ERS-STADIUM-HNS 617 14:51 R S

   49ERS ASK COURT TO BLOCK LATEST ANTI-STADIUM EFFORT

   A2797 BC-FBN-SAINTS-SIGNING-BLOOM 108 14:06 R S

   SAINTS SIGN SECOND-ROUND DRAFT PICK CAMERON CLEELAND

   A2766 BC-FEA-BBA-TIGERS-EASLEY-BLOOM 585 13:51 R S

   TIGERS' DAMION EASLEY GAINS REPUTATION AFTER YEARS OF OBSCURITY

   A2762 BC-FEA-BBA-YANKEES-MICHIGAN-BLOOM 841 13:50 R S

   YANKEES WILLING TO LET MICHIGAN QB DREW HENSON PLAY BOTH SPORTS

   A2760 BC-FEA-BBN-NEW-DODGERS-BLOOM 921 13:49 R S

   FOX TURNING DODGERS INTO YANKEES WEST, PLAYERS, EXECUTIVES SAY

   A2744 BC-FEA-BBN-MCGWIRE-TICKETS-BLOOM 398 13:39 R S

   PROSPECT OF CATCHING MCGWIRE BOMB MAKES BLEACHERS A HOT TICKET

   A2734 BC-FEA-HKN-UNLIKELY-HEROES-BLOOM 651 13:33 R S

   IN HOCKEY, UNLIKELY PLAYERS GET A CHANCE TO BECOME A HERO

   A2724 BC-FEA-HKN-CAPITALS-HUNTER-BLOOM 562 13:30 R S

   STANLEY CUP QUEST PUTS FARMING LIFE ON HOLD FOR DALE HUNTER

   A2721 BC-BBO-FANTASY-COLUMN-BLOOM 963 13:28 R S

   PLAYERS FROM THE JUNE DRAFT WORTH WATCHING: FANTASY BASEBALL

   A2718 BC-FEA-BKN-JAZZ-OWNER-BLOOM 812 13:26 R S

   JAZZ OWNER MILLER INSISTS ON QUALITY PLAYERS AND QUALITY PEOPLE

   A2704 BC-FEA-BBO-MR.-IRRELEVANT-BLOOM 745 13:25 R S

   BASEBALL'S LAST DRAFTEE TO BE HONORED FOR FIRST TIME IN HISTORY

   A2699 BC-FEA-SOC-WORLD-CUP-GUIDE-BLOOM 909 13:24 R S

   UNDERSTANDING SOCCER: A PRIMER FOR WOULD-BE WORLD CUP FANS

   A2690 BC-SPORTS-FEATURE-BUDGET-BLOOM 561 13:23 R S

   BLOOMBERG FEATURE BUDGET FOR WEEKEND OF JUNE 12-14

   A2640 BC-SOC-BRAZIL-MARKET-BLOOM 312 13:14 R S

   BRAZIL BOVESPA EXCHANGE CLOSING DURING BRAZIL-SCOTLAND GAME

',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; SPORTS &LR;  stories that moved Wednesday, June
10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   SPORTS

   A4193 BC-GLF-BUICK-WESTWOOD-NYT 680 02:04 U S

   WESTWOOD ARRIVING AS THREAT IN BUICK

   A4182 BC-BBO-DODGERS-LADN 685 01:45 R S

   DODGERS BEAT A'S

   A4179 BC-BKN-BULLS-TRIO-BLOOM 717 01:26 R S

   BULLS' SUPERSTAR TRIO MAKES THE DIFFERENCE IN GAME 4 OF FINALS

   A4178 BC-finals lede-HNS 934 01:22 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A4176 BC-FRAN BLINEBURY-HNS 927 01:20 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A4171 BC-SOC-COLUMN-VECSEY-SPI 783 01:16 U S

   GOOD MORNING, PLEASE PASS THE WORLD CUP

   A4154 BC-BBN--Astros-Tigers-HNS 864 00:54 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A4142 BC-GEN-NORTHRIDGE-LADN 1548 00:33 R S

   CAL STATE NORTHRIDGE BACK FROM BRINK

   A4143 BC-BBN-DODGERS-NOTES-LADN 716 00:34 R S

   HOLLANDSWORTH SURGERY TODAY

   A4138 BC-BBA-RANGERS-SALE-TEX 626 00:25 R S

   IT'S OFFICIAL AND UNANIMOUS: HICKS OWNS RANGERS

   A4134 BC-BKN-ARATON-COLUMN-NYT 797 00:22 U S

   SPORTS COLUMN: KUKOC IS PEACEMAKER FOR BIG 3 TO CONTINUE

   A4130 BC-BKN-BULSS-JAZZ-NYT 829 00:16 U S

   BULLS TOP JAZZ 86-82, TAKE 3-GAME LEAD

   A4118 BC-BBA-YANKS-EXPOS-NYT 1106 23:39 U S

   IRABU AND YANKS BEAT EXPOS, 6-2

   A4117 BC-kj scuttlebutt-HNS 740 23:38 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A4116 BC-BKN-CLIPPERS-BIBBY-LADN 513 23:36 R S

   CLIPPERS TAKE SNEAK PEEK AT BIBBY

   A4114 BC-HKN-FINALS-NOTEBOOK-NYT 474 23:36 U S

   `IT'S JUST HOCKEY,' HUNTER SAYS OF ROUGH STUFF

   A4111 BC-OUT-ARIZONA-PREDATORS-AZR 1043 23:32 R S

   EL NINO BRINGS PREDATORY FEAST

   A4101 BC-BBO-CLUB-LEADERS-AZR 1178 23:27 R S

   LEADERS NEEDED FOR SUCCESS

   A4098 BC-BBN-MCGWIRE-BP-TIPS-AZR 708 23:26 R S

   BEST SHOW IS BEFORE GAME WITH MCGWIRE

   A4096 BC-BBO-GOMEZ-NOTEBOOK-AZR 794 23:24 R S

   HOW TO STOP THOSE MESSY FIGHTS?

   A4097 BC-BBN-DBACKS-MINORS-NOTES-AZR 556 23:25 R S

   HORRIBLE RE CORDS RUN IN MINORS, TOO

   A4094 BC-World Cup-HNS 942 23:22 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A4084 BC-BKW-MERCURY-OPENER-AZR 699 23:12 R S

   MERCURY AFRAID OF SLOW START

   A4086 BC-BKW-ACKERMAN-Q&AMP;A-AZR 704 23:12 R S

   EXPECTATIONS RISE IN YEAR 2 FOR WNBA

   A3880 BC-NY-YANKEE-STADIUM-525&AMP;ADD-NYT 1085 22:29 U S

   VALLONE INTRODUCES STADIUM REFERENDUM BILL

   A3876 BC-swoopes returns-HNS 761 22:26 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3871 BC-SOC-WORLD-FRENCH-LADN 629 22:21 R S

   REFLECTIONS ON OWN GOALS

   A3872 BC-World Cup-HNS 531 22:22 U S

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A3865 BC-SOC-WORLD-ITALY-LADN 613 22:18 R S

   BAGGIO BACK, SEEKING WORLD CUP GLORY

   A3862 BC-BKW-SPARKS-LADN 712 22:16 R S

   SPARKS BEGIN SECOND SEASON

   A3834 BC-BKC-STJOHNS-NYT 723 22:01 U S

   ST. JOHNS CLOSE TO SIGNING JARVIS AS COACH

   A3823 BC-BBN-METS-NYT 894 21:54 U S

   PIAZZA CONVINCING METS HE KNOWS HOW TO CATCH

   A3799 BC-NBA-NOTEBOOK10-COX 449 21:36 U S

   A3801 BC-BBN-METS-DEVILRAYS-NYT 749 21:36 U S

   METS HANG ON TO DEFEAT DEVILRAYS, 3-2

   A3789 BC-NBA-NOTEBOOK10-COX 449 21:30 U S

   A3788 BC-CUPBIOS-COX 195 21:30 U S

   A3784 BC-CAR-STURBIN-TEX 1970 21:27 R S

   CHILDRESS ROLLS DICE BY TRADING ACE MECHANICS

   A3741 BC-BBA-YANKS-HERNANDEZ-NYT 1095 20:53 U S

   EL DUQUE BAFFLES BOTH FRIENDS AND FOE

   A3742 BC-BKW-WNBA-SEASON-NYT 613 20:55 U S

   IT'S SHOWTIME FOR SISTERS OF THE NBA

   A3731 BC-BKN-KRIKORIAN-LADN 891 20:49 R S

   WHATEVER HAPPENED TO JERRY BUSS?

   A3713 BC-BBN-METS-CARDINALS-TRADE-BLOOM 211 20:39 R S

   METS ACQUIRE WAYNE KIRBY FROM CARDINALS FOR SHAWN GILBERT

   A3694 BC-GOLF-KIDS-NYT 915 20:24 U S

   PROGRAM HELPS KIDS GET A FIRST SWING AT GOLF

   A3692 BC-TEN-U.S.-DAVIS-CUP-BLOOM 279 20:23 R S

   AGASSI, COURIER, MARTIN AND RENEBERG ON U.S. DAVIS CUP TEAM

   A3673 BC-FBN-LIONS-SIGNINGS-BLOOM 217 20:11 R S

   DETROIT LIONS RE-SIGN FREE AGENTS DAVID SLOAN, LARRY THARPE

   A3660 BC-BKW-SPARKS-ROUSSEAU-LADN 826 20:03 R S

   ROUSSEAU BEGINS SECOND SEASON WITH SPARKS

   A3657 BC-SOC-WORLD-CUP-RDP-BLOOM 478 20:02 R S

   BRAZIL WINS WORLD CUP OPENER 2-1; NORWAY AND MOROCCO TIE 2-2

   A3597 BC-BKN-ALL-INTERVIEW-LIST-BLOOM 186 19:38 R S

   1997-98 NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION ALL-INTERVIEW TEAMS

   A3592 BC-OUT-CANOE-LADN 867 19:36 R S

   A TRYING TRIP DOWN MEMORY LANE

   A3593 BC-OUT-CANOE-SIDE-LADN 215 19:37 R S

   WHERE TO ROW, ROW A CANOE

   A3584 BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-1STLD-WRITETHRU-NYT 978 19:32 U S

   (Eds.: Updates to include score on Norway-Morocco game)

   A3581 BC-BKN-WILLIAMS-ALL-INTERVIEW-BLOOM 232 19:31 R S

   NETS' JAYSON WILLIAMS LEADS 1997-98 NBA ALL-INTERVIEW TEAM

   A3566 BC-LADN-SPORTS--BUDGET 331 19:28 R S

   The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following sports
stories for use by

   A3537 BC-FBN-WHITE-STUDIO-BLOOM 340 19:16 R S

   PACKERS' REGGIE WHITE IN GROUP THAT PLANS TO BUILD FILM STUDIO

   A3510 BC-HKN-BETTMAN-REFEREES-BLOOM 187 19:08 R S

   NHL COMMISSIONER BETTMAN LIKES CONCEPT OF TWO-REFEREE SYSTEM

   A3438 BC-HKN-GAME-1-RATINGS-BLOOM 373 18:32 R S

   FOX'S GAME 1 STANLEY CUP RATINGS DOWN 18 PERCENT FROM LAST YEAR

   A3431 BC-BKC-RULE-CHANGE-BLOOM 342 18:29 R S

   NCAA COMMITTEE CHANGES BASKETBALL HELD-BALL RULE

   A3422 BC-SPORTSNETBRITE-BJT11-COX 506 18:26 U S

   A3362 BC-SPORTS-BJT11-COX 336 18:06 R S

   A3353 BC-PINKNEY-ARENALEAGUE11-COX 1295 18:01 R S

   A3354 BC-REDS11-COX 537 18:02 R S

   A3350 BC-NCAA-PROCEDURE11-COX 464 17:59 R S

   A3343 BC-FBN-CHARGERS-MIMS-BLOOM 168 17:55 R S

   CHARGERS SIGN DEFENSIVE END CHRIS MIMS TO ONE-YEAR CONTRACT

   A3302 BC-SOC-WORLD-CUP-BOND-BLOOM 413 17:37 R S

   IFC TEMPTS SOCCER-CRAZY ITALIANS WITH BOND: FINANCING BUSINESS

   A3292 BC-BBN-GIANTS-KENT-BLOOM 136 17:34 R S

   GIANTS PLACE KENT ON DISABLED LIST WITH SPRAINED RIGHT KNEE

   A3248 BC-FBN-DOLPHINS-JONES-BLOOM 187 17:21 R S

   MIAMI DOLPHINS SIGN FREE AGENT LINEBACKER ROBERT JONES

   A3216 BC-HKN-SENATORS-HOSSA-BLOOM 147 17:04 R S

   OTTAWA SENATORS PROSPECT MARIAN HOSSA UNDERGOES KNEE SURGERY

   A3211 BC-SPORTS-BUDGET-BLOOM 380 17:01 R S

   BLOOMBERG SPORTS BUDGET FOR JUNE 10

   A3212 BC-SOC-VECSEY-COLUMN-NYT 777 17:01 U S

   SPORTS COLUMN: WORLD'S TEAM KICKS OFF WORLD CUP

   A3206 BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-650&AMP;ADD-NYT 958 16:57 U S

   DEFENDING CHAMPION BRAZIL STRUGGLES IN CUP OPENER, A 2-1 WIN
OVER SCOTLAND

   A3205 BC-HKN-BLAKE-BOWMAN-BLOOM 838 16:57 R S

   RED WINGS' BOWMAN ONE RING AWAY FROM TYING MENTOR TOE BLAKE

   A3132 BC-HKN-BOWMAN-BLAKE-BLOOM 838 16:26 R S

   RED WINGS' BOWMAN ONE RING AWAY FROM TYING MENTOR TOE BLAKE

   A3096 BC-HKN-PANTHERS-DOELL-BLOOM 172 16:11 R S

   PANTHERS SIGN DEFENSEMAN CURTIS DOELL TO THREE-YEAR CONTRACT

   A3050 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:48 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3049 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:47 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3047 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:46 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3043 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:45 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3041 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:43 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3039 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:42 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3037 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:41 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3034 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:39 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3032 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:38 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3019 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:32 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3016 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:31 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3013 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:29 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3012 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:28 U S

   Attn Sports Editor:

   A3008 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:27 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A3005 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:26 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A2994 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:24 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A2964 BC-BKC-HOWARD-COACH-BLOOM 167 15:19 R S

   HOWARD UNIVERSITY NAMES KIRK SAULNY BASKETBALL COACH

   A2961 BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET 240 15:18 U S

   Attn Sports Editors:

   A2925 BC-BBN-MCGWIRE-CHARITY-BLOOM 900 15:10 R S

   MCGWIRE'S COMMITMENT TO CAUSE DIDN'T END WITH WRITING A CHECK

   A2881 BC-FBN-49ERS-STADIUM-HNS 617 14:51 R S

   49ERS ASK COURT TO BLOCK LATEST ANTI-STADIUM EFFORT

   A2797 BC-FBN-SAINTS-SIGNING-BLOOM 108 14:06 R S

   SAINTS SIGN SECOND-ROUND DRAFT PICK CAMERON CLEELAND

   A2766 BC-FEA-BBA-TIGERS-EASLEY-BLOOM 585 13:51 R S

   TIGERS' DAMION EASLEY GAINS REPUTATION AFTER YEARS OF OBSCURITY

   A2762 BC-FEA-BBA-YANKEES-MICHIGAN-BLOOM 841 13:50 R S

   YANKEES WILLING TO LET MICHIGAN QB DREW HENSON PLAY BOTH SPORTS

   A2760 BC-FEA-BBN-NEW-DODGERS-BLOOM 921 13:49 R S

   FOX TURNING DODGERS INTO YANKEES WEST, PLAYERS, EXECUTIVES SAY

   A2744 BC-FEA-BBN-MCGWIRE-TICKETS-BLOOM 398 13:39 R S

   PROSPECT OF CATCHING MCGWIRE BOMB MAKES BLEACHERS A HOT TICKET

   A2734 BC-FEA-HKN-UNLIKELY-HEROES-BLOOM 651 13:33 R S

   IN HOCKEY, UNLIKELY PLAYERS GET A CHANCE TO BECOME A HERO

   A2724 BC-FEA-HKN-CAPITALS-HUNTER-BLOOM 562 13:30 R S

   STANLEY CUP QUEST PUTS FARMING LIFE ON HOLD FOR DALE HUNTER

   A2721 BC-BBO-FANTASY-COLUMN-BLOOM 963 13:28 R S

   PLAYERS FROM THE JUNE DRAFT WORTH WATCHING: FANTASY BASEBALL

   A2718 BC-FEA-BKN-JAZZ-OWNER-BLOOM 812 13:26 R S

   JAZZ OWNER MILLER INSISTS ON QUALITY PLAYERS AND QUALITY PEOPLE

   A2704 BC-FEA-BBO-MR.-IRRELEVANT-BLOOM 745 13:25 R S

   BASEBALL'S LAST DRAFTEE TO BE HONORED FOR FIRST TIME IN HISTORY

   A2699 BC-FEA-SOC-WORLD-CUP-GUIDE-BLOOM 909 13:24 R S

   UNDERSTANDING SOCCER: A PRIMER FOR WOULD-BE WORLD CUP FANS

   A2690 BC-SPORTS-FEATURE-BUDGET-BLOOM 561 13:23 R S

   BLOOMBERG FEATURE BUDGET FOR WEEKEND OF JUNE 12-14

   A2640 BC-SOC-BRAZIL-MARKET-BLOOM 312 13:14 R S

   BRAZIL BOVESPA EXCHANGE CLOSING DURING BRAZIL-SCOTLAND GAME

'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0037 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 03:11 ',
			header: '
A4239 &Cx1f; taf-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ENTERTAINMENT-SLUGLIS     06-11 0745
',
			slug: ' BC-ENTERTAINMENT-SLUGLIST-CLOSER ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; ENTERTAINMENT &LR;  stories that moved Wednesday,
June 10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   ENTERTAINMENT

   A3811 BC-DEAF-MOVIE-2NDTAKE-NYT 658 21:45 U E

   UNDATED: out,'' he said.

   A3810 BC-DEAF-MOVIE-885(2TAKES)-NYT 916 21:44 U E

   FILM SHEDS LIGHT ON EMOTIONAL ISSUES OF THE DEAF

   A3796 BC-MANZE-MUSIC-2NDTAKE-$ADV14-NYT 874 21:34 S E

   UNDATED: not survived.

   A3794 BC-MANZE-MUSIC-2TAKES-$ADV14-NYT 1034 21:33 S E

   EARLY MUSIC, TRULY OLD-FASHIONED AT LAST?

   A3783 BC-FLAMENCO-DANCE-2NDTAKE-$ADV14-NYT 793 21:26 S E

   NEW YORK: Astor Piazzola.

   A3782 BC-FLAMENCO-DANCE-2TAKES-$ADV14-NYT 867 21:25 S E

   FREER AND FRESHER, AN OLD FORM CATCHES FIRE

   A3766 BC-MOVIES-TWEENERS-2NDTAKE-$ADV14-NYT 1293 21:12 S E

   UNDATED: of today.

   A3765 BC-MOVIES-TWEENERS-$ADV14-2TAKES-NYT 1045 21:11 S E

   YOUNG AND IN A NICHE THE MOVIES NEGLECT

   A3751 BC-ALLY-SHEEDY-MOVIES-$ADV14-2TAKES-NYT 710 21:01 S E

   ALLY SHEEDY MAKES A BID TO BE TAKEN SERIOUSLY

   A3752 BC-ALLY-SHEEDY-MOVIES-2NDTAKE-$ADV14-NYT 1090 21:02 S E

   UNDATED: interesting actress.''

   A3653 BC-NILSSON-CDS-NYT 885 19:59 U E

   CDS: BEFORE NILSSON WAS NILSSON

   A3643 BC-HARRY-THEATER-REVIEW-NYT 515 19:54 U E

   `HARRY AND THE CANNIBALS': A MAN OF MANY PARTS

   A3531 BC-KRAFTWERK-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 429 19:14 U E

   TOKYO: techno music.''

   A3529 BC-KRAFTWERK-ART-2TAKES-NYT 1140 19:13 U E

   HARDLY A POCKET CALCULATOR: KRAFTWERK'S STUDIO GOES ON TOUR

   A3513 BC-TV-BARBIE-REVIEW-NYT 656 19:09 U E

   `THE SECRET LIFE OF BARBIE': WHAT A DOLL

   A3492 BC-WATERTOWER-SCULPTOR-ART-NYT 1095 19:03 U E

   BRITISH SCULPTOR MAKES PUBLIC ART OF WATER TOWER

   A3486 BC-BOOK-TALK-570&AMP;ADD-NYT 1015 19:01 U E

   MAKING BOOKS: ART OF FOREPLAY AT THE TABLE

   A3481 BC-PHILA-DANCE-REVIEW-ART-NYT 561 18:59 U E

   PHILADANCO: `FIBER' THAT'S THE FABRIC OF LIFE

   A3472 BC-TV-SURFER11-COX 394 18:54 U E

   A3469 BC-BOOKS-ROMANCE-COX 618 18:52 U E

   A3468 BC-VIDEO-SPOTLIGHT11-COX 164 18:52 U E

   A3466 BC-VIDEO-MINIREVIEWS11-COX 337 18:51 U E

   A3467 BC-VIDEO-SCREAM2-COX 247 18:52 U E

   A3464 BC-NORM-COX 539 18:50 U E

   A3465 BC-SPICEGIRLS-COX 777 18:51 U E

   A3463 BC-BOOKS-NOTES11-COX 582 18:50 U E

   A3461 BC-AUDIO-ROCK11-COX 317 18:49 U E

   A3454 BC-AUDIO-COUNTRY11-COX 428 18:43 U E

   A3439 BC-DEEJAYS-BIOS-AZR 394 18:32 R E

   LADY DEEJAYS' BIOS

   A3435 BC-TV-INNOCENTS-REVIEW-NYT 548 18:31 U E

   `INNOCENTS LOST': TRACKING CHILD ABUSE ABROAD

   A3428 BC-JOCASTA-OPERA-REVIEW-NYT 547 18:28 U E

   A FEMINIST LOOK AT SOPHOCLES

   A3396 BC-LADY-DEEJAYS-AZR 866 18:19 R E

   FEMALE DEEJAYS READY TO BE JUST PLAIN DEEJAYS

   A3378 BC-CULTURE-NOTES-NYT 486 18:13 U E

   (ATTN: N.Y., China)

   A3375 BC-CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-$ADV14-2TAKES-NYT 974 18:12 S E

   DOES SHAKESPEARE REALLY NEED B-12 SHOTS?

   A3377 BC-CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-2NDTAKE-$ADV14-NYT 839 18:12 S E

   NEW YORK: the director.

   A3373 BC-VONDA-AZR 947 18:10 R E

   CROONER TAKES ADVANTAGE OF NEWFOUND FAME

   A2980 BC-ENTERTAINMENT-NYT-BUDGET 186 15:21 U E

   A2955 BC-SINATRA-TV-LADN 189 15:17 R E

   IT'S SINATRA NIGHT

   A2865 BC-PERSPECTIVE-SURREALISM-BOS 1286 14:42 U E

   WOMEN MAKING THEIR MARK IN SURREALISM

   A2824 BC-MAGAZINE-REVIEW-BOS 1147 14:22 U E

   WHY DOES WEEKLY STANDARD TREAT GOLDWATER WITH KID GLOVES?

   A2817 BC-TV-MAGIC-BOS 490 14:18 U E

   MAGIC JOHNSON'S SHOW NEEDS A LITTLE MORE WORK

   A2745 BC-CONTEMPORARY-CW-WOMEN-SPI 1207 13:40 R E

   `GIRL POWER' PROPELS TODAY'S COUNTRY DIVAS DOWN NEW PATHS

   A2731 BC-REHM-VOICE-AZR 1602 13:30 R E

   PBS RADIO HOST BATTLING VOCAL DISORDER.

   A2667 BC-AUDIO-BOOKS-$ADV14-HNS 731 13:19 R E

   (For release Sunday, June 14)

   A2635 BC-BOOK-REVIEW-MYSTERIES-HNS 1000 13:12 R E

   GRAFTON'S `N' FALLS SHORT OF BEING LETTER PERFECT

   A2501 BC-TV-WEEKEND-$adv13-NYTSF 1019 12:24 R E

   FOR RELEASE: SAT., JUNE 13 &AMP; SUN., JUNE 14, 1998

   A2376 BC-GOSPEL11-COX 400 11:19 R E

',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; ENTERTAINMENT &LR;  stories that moved Wednesday,
June 10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   ENTERTAINMENT

   A3811 BC-DEAF-MOVIE-2NDTAKE-NYT 658 21:45 U E

   UNDATED: out,'' he said.

   A3810 BC-DEAF-MOVIE-885(2TAKES)-NYT 916 21:44 U E

   FILM SHEDS LIGHT ON EMOTIONAL ISSUES OF THE DEAF

   A3796 BC-MANZE-MUSIC-2NDTAKE-$ADV14-NYT 874 21:34 S E

   UNDATED: not survived.

   A3794 BC-MANZE-MUSIC-2TAKES-$ADV14-NYT 1034 21:33 S E

   EARLY MUSIC, TRULY OLD-FASHIONED AT LAST?

   A3783 BC-FLAMENCO-DANCE-2NDTAKE-$ADV14-NYT 793 21:26 S E

   NEW YORK: Astor Piazzola.

   A3782 BC-FLAMENCO-DANCE-2TAKES-$ADV14-NYT 867 21:25 S E

   FREER AND FRESHER, AN OLD FORM CATCHES FIRE

   A3766 BC-MOVIES-TWEENERS-2NDTAKE-$ADV14-NYT 1293 21:12 S E

   UNDATED: of today.

   A3765 BC-MOVIES-TWEENERS-$ADV14-2TAKES-NYT 1045 21:11 S E

   YOUNG AND IN A NICHE THE MOVIES NEGLECT

   A3751 BC-ALLY-SHEEDY-MOVIES-$ADV14-2TAKES-NYT 710 21:01 S E

   ALLY SHEEDY MAKES A BID TO BE TAKEN SERIOUSLY

   A3752 BC-ALLY-SHEEDY-MOVIES-2NDTAKE-$ADV14-NYT 1090 21:02 S E

   UNDATED: interesting actress.''

   A3653 BC-NILSSON-CDS-NYT 885 19:59 U E

   CDS: BEFORE NILSSON WAS NILSSON

   A3643 BC-HARRY-THEATER-REVIEW-NYT 515 19:54 U E

   `HARRY AND THE CANNIBALS': A MAN OF MANY PARTS

   A3531 BC-KRAFTWERK-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 429 19:14 U E

   TOKYO: techno music.''

   A3529 BC-KRAFTWERK-ART-2TAKES-NYT 1140 19:13 U E

   HARDLY A POCKET CALCULATOR: KRAFTWERK'S STUDIO GOES ON TOUR

   A3513 BC-TV-BARBIE-REVIEW-NYT 656 19:09 U E

   `THE SECRET LIFE OF BARBIE': WHAT A DOLL

   A3492 BC-WATERTOWER-SCULPTOR-ART-NYT 1095 19:03 U E

   BRITISH SCULPTOR MAKES PUBLIC ART OF WATER TOWER

   A3486 BC-BOOK-TALK-570&AMP;ADD-NYT 1015 19:01 U E

   MAKING BOOKS: ART OF FOREPLAY AT THE TABLE

   A3481 BC-PHILA-DANCE-REVIEW-ART-NYT 561 18:59 U E

   PHILADANCO: `FIBER' THAT'S THE FABRIC OF LIFE

   A3472 BC-TV-SURFER11-COX 394 18:54 U E

   A3469 BC-BOOKS-ROMANCE-COX 618 18:52 U E

   A3468 BC-VIDEO-SPOTLIGHT11-COX 164 18:52 U E

   A3466 BC-VIDEO-MINIREVIEWS11-COX 337 18:51 U E

   A3467 BC-VIDEO-SCREAM2-COX 247 18:52 U E

   A3464 BC-NORM-COX 539 18:50 U E

   A3465 BC-SPICEGIRLS-COX 777 18:51 U E

   A3463 BC-BOOKS-NOTES11-COX 582 18:50 U E

   A3461 BC-AUDIO-ROCK11-COX 317 18:49 U E

   A3454 BC-AUDIO-COUNTRY11-COX 428 18:43 U E

   A3439 BC-DEEJAYS-BIOS-AZR 394 18:32 R E

   LADY DEEJAYS' BIOS

   A3435 BC-TV-INNOCENTS-REVIEW-NYT 548 18:31 U E

   `INNOCENTS LOST': TRACKING CHILD ABUSE ABROAD

   A3428 BC-JOCASTA-OPERA-REVIEW-NYT 547 18:28 U E

   A FEMINIST LOOK AT SOPHOCLES

   A3396 BC-LADY-DEEJAYS-AZR 866 18:19 R E

   FEMALE DEEJAYS READY TO BE JUST PLAIN DEEJAYS

   A3378 BC-CULTURE-NOTES-NYT 486 18:13 U E

   (ATTN: N.Y., China)

   A3375 BC-CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-$ADV14-2TAKES-NYT 974 18:12 S E

   DOES SHAKESPEARE REALLY NEED B-12 SHOTS?

   A3377 BC-CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-2NDTAKE-$ADV14-NYT 839 18:12 S E

   NEW YORK: the director.

   A3373 BC-VONDA-AZR 947 18:10 R E

   CROONER TAKES ADVANTAGE OF NEWFOUND FAME

   A2980 BC-ENTERTAINMENT-NYT-BUDGET 186 15:21 U E

   A2955 BC-SINATRA-TV-LADN 189 15:17 R E

   IT'S SINATRA NIGHT

   A2865 BC-PERSPECTIVE-SURREALISM-BOS 1286 14:42 U E

   WOMEN MAKING THEIR MARK IN SURREALISM

   A2824 BC-MAGAZINE-REVIEW-BOS 1147 14:22 U E

   WHY DOES WEEKLY STANDARD TREAT GOLDWATER WITH KID GLOVES?

   A2817 BC-TV-MAGIC-BOS 490 14:18 U E

   MAGIC JOHNSON'S SHOW NEEDS A LITTLE MORE WORK

   A2745 BC-CONTEMPORARY-CW-WOMEN-SPI 1207 13:40 R E

   `GIRL POWER' PROPELS TODAY'S COUNTRY DIVAS DOWN NEW PATHS

   A2731 BC-REHM-VOICE-AZR 1602 13:30 R E

   PBS RADIO HOST BATTLING VOCAL DISORDER.

   A2667 BC-AUDIO-BOOKS-$ADV14-HNS 731 13:19 R E

   (For release Sunday, June 14)

   A2635 BC-BOOK-REVIEW-MYSTERIES-HNS 1000 13:12 R E

   GRAFTON'S `N' FALLS SHORT OF BEING LETTER PERFECT

   A2501 BC-TV-WEEKEND-$adv13-NYTSF 1019 12:24 R E

   FOR RELEASE: SAT., JUNE 13 &AMP; SUN., JUNE 14, 1998

   A2376 BC-GOSPEL11-COX 400 11:19 R E

'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0038 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 03:12 ',
			header: '
A4241 &Cx1f; taf-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-LIFESTYLE-SLUGLIST-CL     06-11 0731
',
			slug: ' BC-LIFESTYLE-SLUGLIST-CLOSER ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; LIFESTYLE &LR;  stories that moved Wednesday, June
10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   LIFE-STYLE

   A3821 BC-LEAH-PERSONALS-SFCHRON 767 21:52 R L

   (Eds: This story also moved in the ``a'' national news file)

   A3822 BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT 1851 21:53 U L

   A3763 BC-DOLLAR-COIN-HISTORY-TEX 263 21:10 R L

   (EDS: Accompanies BC-DOLLAR-COIN)

   A3686 BC-DEATH-WATCHERS-TEX 453 20:20 R L

   BOB HOPE STORY BRINGS CELEBRITY DEATH-WATCHERS BACK TO LIFE

   A3685 BC-DEATH-WATCHERS-TEX 453 20:19 R L

   BOB HOPE STORY BRINGS CELEBRITY DEATH-WATCHERS BACK TO LIFE

   A3683 BC-DOLLAR-COIN-TEX 908 20:18 R L

   CAN NEW SACAJAWEA COIN GIVE THOSE DEAD PRESIDENTS A RUN FOR
THEIR MONEY?

   A3509 BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT 286 19:08 U L

   A3508 BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT 31 19:08 U L

   A3470 BC-CANCER-COX 536 18:53 U L

   A3460 BC-STYLE-SHOES-COX 399 18:48 U L

   A3458 BC-CSIBLEY-COLUMN14-COX 608 18:48 U L

   A3459 BC-STYLE-BRACELET-COX 190 18:48 U L

   A3457 BC-COLES-COX 2408 18:46 U L

   A3455 BC-COLE-DUKE-COX 887 18:43 U L

   A3447 BC-GOODYKOONTZ-COLUMN-AZR 731 18:37 R L

   NEW CRAZE IN RECYCLING: OLD CRAZES

   A3433 BC-MIND-BOOK-REVIEW-NYT 1047 18:30 U L

   (Attn: W.Va., Calif.)

   A3344 BC-BRITAIN-POUNDBURY-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 939 17:55 U L

   DORCHESTER: in town.

   A3342 BC-BRITAIN-POUNDBURY-ART-2TAKES-NYT 1242 17:54 U L

   ONE PRINCE'S CAUSE IS ANOTHER MAN'S CASTLE

   A3246 BC-GARDENING-Q&AMP;A-NYT 939 17:19 U L

   GARDENING QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

   A3241 BC-HARLEM-SHOWHOUSE-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 685 17:17 U L

   NEW YORK: African art.

   A3238 BC-HARLEM-SHOWHOUSE-ART-2TAKES-NYT 1165 17:16 U L

   THE SPIRIT OF IMPROVISATION LIVES IN HARLEM

   A3224 BC-TROMPE-L'OEIL-DESIGN-NYT 455 17:10 U L

   (ATTN: Calif.)

   A3221 BC-NY-BEDFORD-STREET-ART-2TAKES-NYT 1078 17:07 U L

   HELPING THE MAYOR OF BEDFORD STREET TO STAY ON

   A3222 BC-NY-BEDFORD-STREET-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 374 17:08 U L

   NEW YORK: Steele said.

   A3134 BC-FOUNTAIN-DESIGN-525&AMP;ADD-NYT 884 16:28 U L

   (ATTN: Texas, Conn.)

   A3104 BC-HILTON-SLEEP-TIGHT-NYT 651 16:13 U L

   TO SOOTHE THE WEARY, STRESSED AND JET LAGGED (JT)

   A3098 BC-HOME-IMPROVEMENT-ART-NYT 766 16:12 U L

   PICKING THE RIGHT FILE FOR YOUR NEEDS

   A3023 BC-HATS-FASHIONS-LADN 633 15:34 R L

   THE MILLINERY MAGICIAN

   A2958 BC-HATS-TIPS-LADN 224 15:18 R L

   HAUTE HAT TIPS

   A2957 BC-HATS-ACCESSORIES-LADN 613 15:18 R L

   SO, WHAT'S A CLOCHE?

   A2949 BC-ENTERTAINMENT-BUDGET-LADN 246 15:16 R L

   (For use by NYTimes News Service clients)

   A2936 BC-NODATE-SIDE2-AZR 449 15:13 R L

   DAD HELPED PREPARE SON FOR MARRIAGE

   A2933 BC-NODATE-AZR 1138 15:11 R L

   TEENS SPURN LUSTFUL TEMPTATIONS

   A2934 BC-NODATE-SIDE1-AZR 409 15:12 R L

   COUPLE FOLLOWED TRADITIONAL MUSLIM RULES

   A2926 BC-HOME-BUDGET-NYT 684 15:10 U L

   A2877 BC-BEAM-COLUMN-BOS 721 14:49 U L

   McDONALDS' OWNER DEFIES FOUNDER KROC TO MERCHANDISE McVEGGIE

   A2878 BC-HABITAT-VOLUNTEERS-ART-HNS 612 14:49 U L

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A2870 BC-HOOD-BOY-BOS 1413 14:45 U L

   HOOD ENABLES BOY TO GO PLACES HE HAD TO STAY AWAY FROM

   A2860 BC-FASHION-MAKEUP-BOS 751 14:38 U L

   MAKEUP GURU TRISH McEVOY CAN RELIEVE SOME OF THAT INSECURITY

   A2719 BC-REHM-VOICE-AZR 1602 13:27 R L

   PBS RADIO HOST BATTLING VOCAL DISORDER.

   A2579 BC-NEW-TREATMENT-FOR-SNAKEBITES-(NEW-SCIENTIST)-NYTSF 616
13:04 R L

   SNAKEBITES MAY NO LONGER NEED RADICAL PLASTIC SURGERY

   A2567 BC-RUSSIA-BRIDES-COX- 1215 13:00 R L

   -$ADV13

   A2428 NYTR-PHOTO-BUDGET 2374 11:53 R L

   A2390 BC-FEATURES-BJT11-COX 867 11:25 R L

   A2386 BC-TEEN-DRINKING11-COX 450 11:24 R L

   A2383 BC-MILNER-BOOKS11-COX 702 11:23 R L

   A2373 BC-TECHNOBUDDY11-COX 686 11:18 R L

   A2270 BC-THIS-OLD-HOUSE-28-NYTSF 1283 09:33 R L

   THROUGH A DOORWAY THOUGHTFULLY: DON'T SEE A DOOR; SEE A DOORWAY

',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; LIFESTYLE &LR;  stories that moved Wednesday, June
10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   LIFE-STYLE

   A3821 BC-LEAH-PERSONALS-SFCHRON 767 21:52 R L

   (Eds: This story also moved in the ``a'' national news file)

   A3822 BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT 1851 21:53 U L

   A3763 BC-DOLLAR-COIN-HISTORY-TEX 263 21:10 R L

   (EDS: Accompanies BC-DOLLAR-COIN)

   A3686 BC-DEATH-WATCHERS-TEX 453 20:20 R L

   BOB HOPE STORY BRINGS CELEBRITY DEATH-WATCHERS BACK TO LIFE

   A3685 BC-DEATH-WATCHERS-TEX 453 20:19 R L

   BOB HOPE STORY BRINGS CELEBRITY DEATH-WATCHERS BACK TO LIFE

   A3683 BC-DOLLAR-COIN-TEX 908 20:18 R L

   CAN NEW SACAJAWEA COIN GIVE THOSE DEAD PRESIDENTS A RUN FOR
THEIR MONEY?

   A3509 BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT 286 19:08 U L

   A3508 BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT 31 19:08 U L

   A3470 BC-CANCER-COX 536 18:53 U L

   A3460 BC-STYLE-SHOES-COX 399 18:48 U L

   A3458 BC-CSIBLEY-COLUMN14-COX 608 18:48 U L

   A3459 BC-STYLE-BRACELET-COX 190 18:48 U L

   A3457 BC-COLES-COX 2408 18:46 U L

   A3455 BC-COLE-DUKE-COX 887 18:43 U L

   A3447 BC-GOODYKOONTZ-COLUMN-AZR 731 18:37 R L

   NEW CRAZE IN RECYCLING: OLD CRAZES

   A3433 BC-MIND-BOOK-REVIEW-NYT 1047 18:30 U L

   (Attn: W.Va., Calif.)

   A3344 BC-BRITAIN-POUNDBURY-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 939 17:55 U L

   DORCHESTER: in town.

   A3342 BC-BRITAIN-POUNDBURY-ART-2TAKES-NYT 1242 17:54 U L

   ONE PRINCE'S CAUSE IS ANOTHER MAN'S CASTLE

   A3246 BC-GARDENING-Q&AMP;A-NYT 939 17:19 U L

   GARDENING QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

   A3241 BC-HARLEM-SHOWHOUSE-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 685 17:17 U L

   NEW YORK: African art.

   A3238 BC-HARLEM-SHOWHOUSE-ART-2TAKES-NYT 1165 17:16 U L

   THE SPIRIT OF IMPROVISATION LIVES IN HARLEM

   A3224 BC-TROMPE-L'OEIL-DESIGN-NYT 455 17:10 U L

   (ATTN: Calif.)

   A3221 BC-NY-BEDFORD-STREET-ART-2TAKES-NYT 1078 17:07 U L

   HELPING THE MAYOR OF BEDFORD STREET TO STAY ON

   A3222 BC-NY-BEDFORD-STREET-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT 374 17:08 U L

   NEW YORK: Steele said.

   A3134 BC-FOUNTAIN-DESIGN-525&AMP;ADD-NYT 884 16:28 U L

   (ATTN: Texas, Conn.)

   A3104 BC-HILTON-SLEEP-TIGHT-NYT 651 16:13 U L

   TO SOOTHE THE WEARY, STRESSED AND JET LAGGED (JT)

   A3098 BC-HOME-IMPROVEMENT-ART-NYT 766 16:12 U L

   PICKING THE RIGHT FILE FOR YOUR NEEDS

   A3023 BC-HATS-FASHIONS-LADN 633 15:34 R L

   THE MILLINERY MAGICIAN

   A2958 BC-HATS-TIPS-LADN 224 15:18 R L

   HAUTE HAT TIPS

   A2957 BC-HATS-ACCESSORIES-LADN 613 15:18 R L

   SO, WHAT'S A CLOCHE?

   A2949 BC-ENTERTAINMENT-BUDGET-LADN 246 15:16 R L

   (For use by NYTimes News Service clients)

   A2936 BC-NODATE-SIDE2-AZR 449 15:13 R L

   DAD HELPED PREPARE SON FOR MARRIAGE

   A2933 BC-NODATE-AZR 1138 15:11 R L

   TEENS SPURN LUSTFUL TEMPTATIONS

   A2934 BC-NODATE-SIDE1-AZR 409 15:12 R L

   COUPLE FOLLOWED TRADITIONAL MUSLIM RULES

   A2926 BC-HOME-BUDGET-NYT 684 15:10 U L

   A2877 BC-BEAM-COLUMN-BOS 721 14:49 U L

   McDONALDS' OWNER DEFIES FOUNDER KROC TO MERCHANDISE McVEGGIE

   A2878 BC-HABITAT-VOLUNTEERS-ART-HNS 612 14:49 U L

   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)

   A2870 BC-HOOD-BOY-BOS 1413 14:45 U L

   HOOD ENABLES BOY TO GO PLACES HE HAD TO STAY AWAY FROM

   A2860 BC-FASHION-MAKEUP-BOS 751 14:38 U L

   MAKEUP GURU TRISH McEVOY CAN RELIEVE SOME OF THAT INSECURITY

   A2719 BC-REHM-VOICE-AZR 1602 13:27 R L

   PBS RADIO HOST BATTLING VOCAL DISORDER.

   A2579 BC-NEW-TREATMENT-FOR-SNAKEBITES-(NEW-SCIENTIST)-NYTSF 616
13:04 R L

   SNAKEBITES MAY NO LONGER NEED RADICAL PLASTIC SURGERY

   A2567 BC-RUSSIA-BRIDES-COX- 1215 13:00 R L

   -$ADV13

   A2428 NYTR-PHOTO-BUDGET 2374 11:53 R L

   A2390 BC-FEATURES-BJT11-COX 867 11:25 R L

   A2386 BC-TEEN-DRINKING11-COX 450 11:24 R L

   A2383 BC-MILNER-BOOKS11-COX 702 11:23 R L

   A2373 BC-TECHNOBUDDY11-COX 686 11:18 R L

   A2270 BC-THIS-OLD-HOUSE-28-NYTSF 1283 09:33 R L

   THROUGH A DOORWAY THOUGHTFULLY: DON'T SEE A DOOR; SEE A DOORWAY

'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0039 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 03:12 ',
			header: '
A4242 &Cx1f; taf-z
r d &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FOOD-DINING-SLUGLIST-     06-11 0164
',
			slug: ' BC-FOOD-DINING-SLUGLIST-CLOSER ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; FOOD and DINING &LR;  stories that moved
Wednesday, June 10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News
Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   FOOD AND DINING

   A3483 BC-HERB-THYME-TEX 929 19:00 R D

   THYME TO TRY AN HERB WITH CLOVE, LEMON OR CARAWAY FLAVORS

   A3168 BC-RECIPES-BUNDY-TEX 1112 16:42 R D

   MAKE-AHEAD MORSELS TAKE THE ANGST OUT OF ENTERTAINING

   A2812 BC-FOOD-RECIPES-BOS 1061 14:14 U D

   TUSCAN RECIPES FROM NANCY JENKINS

   A2798 BC-FOOD-CARTE-BOS 1223 14:06 U D

   WHATEVER HAS HAPPENED TO THE WAITER?

   A2795 BC-FOOD-NANCY-BOS 1569 14:04 U D

   NANCY JENKINS COOKS UP THE SUNNY WORLD OF TUSCANY

   A2382 BC-FOOD-DONE11-COX 946 11:22 R D

   A2377 BC-LEEMAY-COLUMN11-COX 604 11:19 R D

   qqq

   nytr
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here is a list of  &UR; FOOD and DINING &LR;  stories that moved
Wednesday, June 10, through 2:30 a.m. today, on The N.Y. Times News
Service.

   The stories go backward to 6:30 a.m. the previous day. Included
is story number, keyword, wordage, time sent (Eastern), priority
code and category code.

   FOOD AND DINING

   A3483 BC-HERB-THYME-TEX 929 19:00 R D

   THYME TO TRY AN HERB WITH CLOVE, LEMON OR CARAWAY FLAVORS

   A3168 BC-RECIPES-BUNDY-TEX 1112 16:42 R D

   MAKE-AHEAD MORSELS TAKE THE ANGST OUT OF ENTERTAINING

   A2812 BC-FOOD-RECIPES-BOS 1061 14:14 U D

   TUSCAN RECIPES FROM NANCY JENKINS

   A2798 BC-FOOD-CARTE-BOS 1223 14:06 U D

   WHATEVER HAS HAPPENED TO THE WAITER?

   A2795 BC-FOOD-NANCY-BOS 1569 14:04 U D

   NANCY JENKINS COOKS UP THE SUNNY WORLD OF TUSCANY

   A2382 BC-FOOD-DONE11-COX 946 11:22 R D

   A2377 BC-LEEMAY-COLUMN11-COX 604 11:19 R D

   qqq

   nytr
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0040 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 03:14 ',
			header: '
A4245 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-finalssider-HNS &LR;      06-11 0789
',
			slug: ' BC-finals ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; By EDDIE SEFKO &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
CHICAGO _ It was right there for the Utah Jazz.

   Three days after one of the most humiliating moments in NBA
history, Karl Malone, John Stockton and friends were poised to
regain their dignity, to show their ambition wasn't lost, that they
still had confidence they could pull off this upset.

   And then, they were dealt one more kick in their aspirations.

   Utah's inability to get a defensive rebound against Dennis
Rodman and a couple of botched defensive plays against Michael
Jordan put a stake through the Jazz's heart Wednesday night.
Chicago's 86-82 victory at the United Center means the Bulls could
win their sixth title in eight years Friday. Utah must win three
consecutive games to stop the Bulls' dynasty.

   When the Jazz couldn't get it done Wednesday when it had the
opportunities, one had to wonder if Utah would ever get a better
chance.

   ``It's not a good position to be in,'' said Stockton. ``But we
have one game here, and if we win that, it's a little different _
we go home for two. I'm not happy about our situation. But right
now, we just need one game.''

   They could very easily have gotten it Wednesday night with a
little better execution down the stretch. It boiled down, as these
games do, to a few key plays.

   ``A couple of offensive rebounds hurt us,'' Jazz coach Jerry
Sloan said. ``And we relied strictly on the 3-point shot a couple
times instead of getting to the basket. There were about three
possessions (that hurt).

   ``I think our players may be a little upset. They'd like to play
a little better. The one thing I told them is that I hope you can
learn from this how important it is to play intelligently.''

   As Stockton added: ``I thought hustle plays gave them a lift. We
just weren't able to finish it off.''

   On a night when the Jazz solved, to some extent, Scottie
Pippen's defensive havoc, they were burned by the 6-8 forward's
offense. Pippen poured in 28 points, 24 in the first three
quarters, as he continued to make a case for Most Valuable Player
of the series.

   But down the stretch, it was Rodman and Jordan. First, Rodman
pulled down Pippen's miss with 2:53 to play and the game tied at
72. Shandon Anderson quickly fouled Rodman, a 57-percent free-throw
shooter.

   He defied those odds by making both shots. The Bulls would not
trail again.

   Jordan then went to work. He made two impressive spin moves
against Anderson and got point-blank shots after each. The capper
came after Utah had drawn within 79-77 and Jordan missed. Rodman
again pulled down an offensive board and was fouled with 43.8
seconds left.

   ``This one hurts more than the other one,'' Utah's Howard Eisley
said, referring to the Jazz's embarrassing 42-point loss in Game 3.
``We had shots down the stretch, but they didn't fall. We feel like
we can beat this team, but we have to go out and do the little
things. Tonight, we didn't get it done.''

   Part of the trouble for the Jazz was Malone's problems in the
fourth quarter. He got just three shots and only two points in the
period.

   ``Maybe I need to try harder,'' Malone deadpanned when it was
over. ``Maybe I need to do things different. But you can't
second-guess yourself now. On Friday, it is do-or-die.

   ``We had an opportunity (Wednesday), but we didn't take
advantage of it and they did. You're not ever thinking about being
down 3-1. You're always thinking about being up 3-1 and winning the
series. We played well at times, and at other times we didn't.''

   Another of the problems Utah had was being outshot at the
free-throw line 40-21. The Bulls made 27 shots from the stripe to
14 for the Jazz.

   ``I don't think we shot a lot of free throws, and part of that
is because we didn't get to the basket,'' Sloan said. ``We relied
on the outside shot, and we got in a hurry.''

   Sloan made a change in his starting lineup, inserting Adam
Keefe, who started at small forward during most of the regular
season, for center Greg Ostertag.

   ``Adam Keefe has played pretty well,'' Sloan said. ``He started
70-some games for us in the regular season. It's been difficult (to
play him) because we've played against a lot of huge centers in the
other series. I thought he might be able to guard (Toni) Kukoc just
a little better. Our other centers were just a little slow reacting
to what's been going on with him.''

   The ploy worked to some extent. Keefe gave the Jazz some early
rebounding punch. And Kukoc was a non-factor on this night.

   It was the other Bulls _ Jordan, Rodman and Pippen in particular
_ who hurt the Jazz.
',
			body: '

 sider-HNS  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
Jazz bemoans missed opportunity

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; By EDDIE SEFKO &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
CHICAGO _ It was right there for the Utah Jazz.

   Three days after one of the most humiliating moments in NBA
history, Karl Malone, John Stockton and friends were poised to
regain their dignity, to show their ambition wasn't lost, that they
still had confidence they could pull off this upset.

   And then, they were dealt one more kick in their aspirations.

   Utah's inability to get a defensive rebound against Dennis
Rodman and a couple of botched defensive plays against Michael
Jordan put a stake through the Jazz's heart Wednesday night.
Chicago's 86-82 victory at the United Center means the Bulls could
win their sixth title in eight years Friday. Utah must win three
consecutive games to stop the Bulls' dynasty.

   When the Jazz couldn't get it done Wednesday when it had the
opportunities, one had to wonder if Utah would ever get a better
chance.

   ``It's not a good position to be in,'' said Stockton. ``But we
have one game here, and if we win that, it's a little different _
we go home for two. I'm not happy about our situation. But right
now, we just need one game.''

   They could very easily have gotten it Wednesday night with a
little better execution down the stretch. It boiled down, as these
games do, to a few key plays.

   ``A couple of offensive rebounds hurt us,'' Jazz coach Jerry
Sloan said. ``And we relied strictly on the 3-point shot a couple
times instead of getting to the basket. There were about three
possessions (that hurt).

   ``I think our players may be a little upset. They'd like to play
a little better. The one thing I told them is that I hope you can
learn from this how important it is to play intelligently.''

   As Stockton added: ``I thought hustle plays gave them a lift. We
just weren't able to finish it off.''

   On a night when the Jazz solved, to some extent, Scottie
Pippen's defensive havoc, they were burned by the 6-8 forward's
offense. Pippen poured in 28 points, 24 in the first three
quarters, as he continued to make a case for Most Valuable Player
of the series.

   But down the stretch, it was Rodman and Jordan. First, Rodman
pulled down Pippen's miss with 2:53 to play and the game tied at
72. Shandon Anderson quickly fouled Rodman, a 57-percent free-throw
shooter.

   He defied those odds by making both shots. The Bulls would not
trail again.

   Jordan then went to work. He made two impressive spin moves
against Anderson and got point-blank shots after each. The capper
came after Utah had drawn within 79-77 and Jordan missed. Rodman
again pulled down an offensive board and was fouled with 43.8
seconds left.

   ``This one hurts more than the other one,'' Utah's Howard Eisley
said, referring to the Jazz's embarrassing 42-point loss in Game 3.
``We had shots down the stretch, but they didn't fall. We feel like
we can beat this team, but we have to go out and do the little
things. Tonight, we didn't get it done.''

   Part of the trouble for the Jazz was Malone's problems in the
fourth quarter. He got just three shots and only two points in the
period.

   ``Maybe I need to try harder,'' Malone deadpanned when it was
over. ``Maybe I need to do things different. But you can't
second-guess yourself now. On Friday, it is do-or-die.

   ``We had an opportunity (Wednesday), but we didn't take
advantage of it and they did. You're not ever thinking about being
down 3-1. You're always thinking about being up 3-1 and winning the
series. We played well at times, and at other times we didn't.''

   Another of the problems Utah had was being outshot at the
free-throw line 40-21. The Bulls made 27 shots from the stripe to
14 for the Jazz.

   ``I don't think we shot a lot of free throws, and part of that
is because we didn't get to the basket,'' Sloan said. ``We relied
on the outside shot, and we got in a hurry.''

   Sloan made a change in his starting lineup, inserting Adam
Keefe, who started at small forward during most of the regular
season, for center Greg Ostertag.

   ``Adam Keefe has played pretty well,'' Sloan said. ``He started
70-some games for us in the regular season. It's been difficult (to
play him) because we've played against a lot of huge centers in the
other series. I thought he might be able to guard (Toni) Kukoc just
a little better. Our other centers were just a little slow reacting
to what's been going on with him.''

   The ploy worked to some extent. Keefe gave the Jazz some early
rebounding punch. And Kukoc was a non-factor on this night.

   It was the other Bulls _ Jordan, Rodman and Pippen in particular
_ who hurt the Jazz.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0041 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 07:14 ',
			header: '
A4287 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BKN-BULLS-JAZZ-BOS &LR;      06-11 0843
',
			slug: ' BC-BKN-BULLS-JAZZ-BOS ',
			headline: '
BULLS ZERO IN ON TITLE 
',
			trailer: '
   CHICAGO _ There is blood in the water off Lake Shore Drive, and
the champions can smell it. The Utah Jazz appear mortally wounded,
and the Chicago Bulls are on the brink of winning their sixth NBA
title this decade and establishing themselves as the worthy sons of
Bill Russell.

   There was no blowout Wednesday night. The Jazz regained their
dignity but could not break the defense or the will of the Bulls.
Champions have great hearts, none bigger than that of Michael
Jordan.

   This time the Bulls won, 86-82, to take a 3-1 lead in the
best-of-seven NBA Finals and set the table for Game 5 Friday night,
which could be the famous final scene for Messrs. Jordan, Scottie
Pippen, and Phil Jackson.

   ``The world is going to have to wait and see what happens,''
said Jordan (34 points). ``I just want to end this season. It's
been a long season, but somehow we're ending up in a great
position. We're in control. Right now we're 3-1 and in control, but
it's not over. We're going to have to play the hardest game of the
year on Friday.''

   Chicago led by as many as 7 in the fourth, but Utah tied it with
3:12 left. The Bulls didn't lose their composure, and with 43.8
seconds showing, Dennis Rodman, of all people, hit two free throws
to give Chicago an 81-77 lead. After his gonzo week of wrestling
and headline-grabbing, Rodman came through with 6 points and 14
rebounds in 30 minutes.

   ``The much-maligned Dennis Rodman had a wonderful game for us,''
said Phil Jackson. ``More than anything, his defense on Karl
(Malone) was great. That and his (seven) offensive rebounds. I
think he'll be at practice tomorrow.''

   After Rodman's free throws, Utah called time. Then John Stockton
_ exposed like few other superstars in any championship series _
missed a layup in traffic and Ron Harper came up with the
loose-ball rebound, setting up two free throws by Toni Kukoc. It
was 83-77 with 26.6 seconds left.

   Ballgame.

   Pippen carried the Bulls in the early going and finished with 28
in this ugly little game, which once again showed why the Bulls are
champions and the Jazz are not. Chicago got every loose ball, and
the next Jazz player to hit the floor will be the first. Game 4 was
winnable for the Jazz, but Malone (a soft 21 points) and Stockton
(3 for 11, 7 points) couldn't get it done. The Mailman delivered
postcards.

   ``Tonight we had opportunities but we didn't take advantage of
them and they did,'' said Malone.

   ``I don't think we took 'em on inside like we could have,'' said
Utah coach Jerry Sloan. ``I don't have frustration. I don't play. I
think our players might be upset. I think they would have liked to
have played a little better.

   ``A couple of offensive rebounds hurt us, and we relied on
3-point shots instead of going to the basket. Hopefully, we'll come
and play the next game. The way we started off tonight wasn't the
way we wanted.''

   The first half was a dull jump-shooting contest in which the
Jazz failed to play with the kind of urgency expected of a team
that was routed in historic fashion three days earlier. Chicago
led, 39-37, at intermission, but not thanks to great marksmanship.
The Bulls made only 35 percent of their shots, but the Jazz were
almost as bad, hitting only 14 of 37 (38 percent). Pippen hit three
treys in the first period, and Jordan (16 in the half) scored 10,
giving the duo 19 of Chicago's 21 points in the first 12 minutes.

   Jordan was on the pine at the start of the second, and Pippen
took charge, scoring Chicago's first 7 points of the period. A
follow by Adam Keefe tied the game at 31, then Stockton hit a
banker, giving Utah a 33-31 lead with 4:48 left in the half. It was
the Jazz's first lead since 13-12. A free throw by Stockton gave
Utah an 8-0 run and a 3-point lead. Chicago missed jump shots on
nine consecutive possessions.

   The Bulls came back late in the half, and it ended dramatically
when Jordan took an inbounds pass with 3.9 seconds left and scored
on a driving scoop shot to send the home team into the locker room
up 2.

   Chicago finally started going to the basket and had a nice run
midway through the third period, stretching its lead to 53-47 with
five minutes left. The champs also turned up their defense, and
Malone &AMP; Co. appeared frustrated.

   Pippen hit a stake-driving 3 (his fifth of the night) in the
final minute of the third, which ended with Chicago leading by 4.

   Jordan rested for the first minute of the fourth, then came off
the pine to stretch the lead to 64-57. The Bulls had a couple of
chances to go up by 9 but failed to convert, and the Jazz hung in
for the predictable, deadly finish.

   ``We're confident,'' said Jackson. ``They have to beat us three
in a row to win the series, and that's tough to do. And we want to
win it Friday.''

   ``The job is not done,'' added Jordan. ``We can taste it but we
still have to finish the job.''
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By DAN SHAUGHNESSY  
 c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   CHICAGO _ There is blood in the water off Lake Shore Drive, and
the champions can smell it. The Utah Jazz appear mortally wounded,
and the Chicago Bulls are on the brink of winning their sixth NBA
title this decade and establishing themselves as the worthy sons of
Bill Russell.

   There was no blowout Wednesday night. The Jazz regained their
dignity but could not break the defense or the will of the Bulls.
Champions have great hearts, none bigger than that of Michael
Jordan.

   This time the Bulls won, 86-82, to take a 3-1 lead in the
best-of-seven NBA Finals and set the table for Game 5 Friday night,
which could be the famous final scene for Messrs. Jordan, Scottie
Pippen, and Phil Jackson.

   ``The world is going to have to wait and see what happens,''
said Jordan (34 points). ``I just want to end this season. It's
been a long season, but somehow we're ending up in a great
position. We're in control. Right now we're 3-1 and in control, but
it's not over. We're going to have to play the hardest game of the
year on Friday.''

   Chicago led by as many as 7 in the fourth, but Utah tied it with
3:12 left. The Bulls didn't lose their composure, and with 43.8
seconds showing, Dennis Rodman, of all people, hit two free throws
to give Chicago an 81-77 lead. After his gonzo week of wrestling
and headline-grabbing, Rodman came through with 6 points and 14
rebounds in 30 minutes.

   ``The much-maligned Dennis Rodman had a wonderful game for us,''
said Phil Jackson. ``More than anything, his defense on Karl
(Malone) was great. That and his (seven) offensive rebounds. I
think he'll be at practice tomorrow.''

   After Rodman's free throws, Utah called time. Then John Stockton
_ exposed like few other superstars in any championship series _
missed a layup in traffic and Ron Harper came up with the
loose-ball rebound, setting up two free throws by Toni Kukoc. It
was 83-77 with 26.6 seconds left.

   Ballgame.

   Pippen carried the Bulls in the early going and finished with 28
in this ugly little game, which once again showed why the Bulls are
champions and the Jazz are not. Chicago got every loose ball, and
the next Jazz player to hit the floor will be the first. Game 4 was
winnable for the Jazz, but Malone (a soft 21 points) and Stockton
(3 for 11, 7 points) couldn't get it done. The Mailman delivered
postcards.

   ``Tonight we had opportunities but we didn't take advantage of
them and they did,'' said Malone.

   ``I don't think we took 'em on inside like we could have,'' said
Utah coach Jerry Sloan. ``I don't have frustration. I don't play. I
think our players might be upset. I think they would have liked to
have played a little better.

   ``A couple of offensive rebounds hurt us, and we relied on
3-point shots instead of going to the basket. Hopefully, we'll come
and play the next game. The way we started off tonight wasn't the
way we wanted.''

   The first half was a dull jump-shooting contest in which the
Jazz failed to play with the kind of urgency expected of a team
that was routed in historic fashion three days earlier. Chicago
led, 39-37, at intermission, but not thanks to great marksmanship.
The Bulls made only 35 percent of their shots, but the Jazz were
almost as bad, hitting only 14 of 37 (38 percent). Pippen hit three
treys in the first period, and Jordan (16 in the half) scored 10,
giving the duo 19 of Chicago's 21 points in the first 12 minutes.

   Jordan was on the pine at the start of the second, and Pippen
took charge, scoring Chicago's first 7 points of the period. A
follow by Adam Keefe tied the game at 31, then Stockton hit a
banker, giving Utah a 33-31 lead with 4:48 left in the half. It was
the Jazz's first lead since 13-12. A free throw by Stockton gave
Utah an 8-0 run and a 3-point lead. Chicago missed jump shots on
nine consecutive possessions.

   The Bulls came back late in the half, and it ended dramatically
when Jordan took an inbounds pass with 3.9 seconds left and scored
on a driving scoop shot to send the home team into the locker room
up 2.

   Chicago finally started going to the basket and had a nice run
midway through the third period, stretching its lead to 53-47 with
five minutes left. The champs also turned up their defense, and
Malone &AMP; Co. appeared frustrated.

   Pippen hit a stake-driving 3 (his fifth of the night) in the
final minute of the third, which ended with Chicago leading by 4.

   Jordan rested for the first minute of the fourth, then came off
the pine to stretch the lead to 64-57. The Bulls had a couple of
chances to go up by 9 but failed to convert, and the Jazz hung in
for the predictable, deadly finish.

   ``We're confident,'' said Jackson. ``They have to beat us three
in a row to win the series, and that's tough to do. And we want to
win it Friday.''

   ``The job is not done,'' added Jordan. ``We can taste it but we
still have to finish the job.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0042 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 07:15 ',
			header: '
A4288 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BBA-RYANCOLUMN-BOS &LR;      06-11 0861
',
			slug: ' BC-BBA-RYAN ',
			headline: '
NOT EVERYTHING CAME UP ACES FOR RED SOX 
',
			trailer: '
   ATLANTA _ Two out of three, and oh so close to a sweep? In
Turner Field? The Red Sox banging out 38 hits good for 25 runs
against the mighty Atlanta Braves?

   So why does my tummy feel as if I just swallowed a shot put?

   Here's why:

   &UR; IP &LR;   &UR; H &LR;   &UR; R &LR;   &UR; ER &LR;   &UR; HR &LR;   &UR; ERA &LR;  &QL;

   24 37 23 23 12 8.63 &QL;

   That's Our Pedro in his last four starts.

   Pass the Tums.

   ``Did he get a win or a loss?'' snapped Jimy Williams, the
well-known Eternal Optimist. ``Did he get a win? You play to win.''

   OK, well, yes, Skip. Your team won, 10-6, Wednesday night and
somebody had to be the winning pitcher _ it's a bookkeeping thing _
and that somebody was Pedro Martinez. But are you honestly telling
us you're not disturbed that your ace gave up four home runs (no
cheapies) for the second consecutive start, not bothered that he
was unable to adequately protect leads of 4-0, 5-1, and 8-3 before
you had to pull him with three runs in and an Andres Galarraga home
run still soaring off into the night in the bottom of the seventh?
We love ya, Jimy, but sometimes you can strain credulity. I'd say
you'd darn well better be worried.

   For five innings, there wasn't much to worry about. At that
point, Pedro was in command. He had struck out six, three of them
on three pitches. He was throwing first-pitch strikes. He was
sitting on a 5-1 lead, the only Atlanta run coming on a homer by
Ryan Klesko in the fourth.

   ``I think they made a big adjustment on me,'' Martinez
suggested. ``That's how good a team they are. What good players
they are. I'm just glad my team just overpowered them for me.''

   So many good things are happening right now. Mo Vaughn
(pressure-relieving two-run homer in the ninth) is swinging the bat
the way Mo Vaughn can. John Valentin reported before the game that
he was ``feeling better'' at the plate, then demonstrated what he
was talking about by blasting two-run homers in each of his first
two at-bats off starter and loser Denny Neagle, a 20-game winner in
1997. Nomar Garciaparra had two more hits and is back on his way to
the Brett Line (.284 and climbing.)

   The middle relief remains solid. Ron Mahay retired the only man
he faced and Rich Garces smoked 'em in the eighth. Tom Gordon
worked for the first time since his aberrational ninth inning
Monday and, though taxed (three 3-and-2 counts in a 27-pitch ninth
inning), managed to get his job done.

   And then there was the defense, a word not always associated
with Your Boston Red Sox.

   Start with center fielder Damon Buford, who made what has to be
the Red Sox outfield play of 1998, a classic bring-'em-back-alive
grab of a sure Tony Graffanino home run in the perilous sixth
inning. People make that type of catch on occasion, but they don't
make them any better than this. Buford had to run full speed into
the fence right near the 400-foot sign. I remember Earl Weaver once
saying that the great Paul Blair made this kind of catch many times
and that he made the catch look easy. I would like to think Paul
Blair would have been proud to claim this catch as his own.

   And then what did Damon Buford do when it was his turn to bat in
the top of the seventh? He followed up a Vaughn whiff by smashing
Neagle's first pitch over the left-field fence for a three-run
homer. Not a bad evening for Damon Buford.

   Less dramatic, but no less an athletic feat, was a play
Garciaparra made in the bottom of the eighth. Andruw Jones, whom
Pedro had taken to the old escuela (three K's on 10 pitches),
finally got his bat on the ball. He hit one into the hole. Nomar
got the ball and came up throwing _ horribly off balance. I mean,
there is no way you can get any mustard on a throw with your body
contorted the way Nomar's was. Then factor in Jones's great speed
and you've got to be looking at an infield single. Well, guess
what. Out at first, and no argument, either. Nomar's shoulder must
be feeling OK.

   We had the overall team batting performance against wily Tom
Glavine Monday. We had the Bret Saberhagen performance Tuesday. We
had Darren Lewis on base three times in each of the three games,
and isn't that what a leadoff man is supposed to do? It goes on and
on. There was so much to like, so much for any Red Sox fan to hang
his or her hat on.

   ``It was a good series for us,'' confirmed Vaughn. ``We came
back from the first-night disappointment and we played solid ball.
We beat a great team in a great city and a great ballpark. It was
positive and we should be uplifted.''

   But who can dwell on any of it when Pedro is getting smacked
around like this? How far can this team go if it needs eight runs
every time Pedro Martinez takes the mound?

   ``It was a great series for us,'' said Martinez, ``especially
with me pitching like this. I pray to God I can turn this around,
and when I do, with this rotation going the way it is, we can do
some serious business.''

   My head hears you, Pedro. My heart hears you, too. But do you
mind telling it to my stomach?
',
			body: '


 COLUMN-BOS   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By BOB RYAN  
 c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATLANTA _ Two out of three, and oh so close to a sweep? In
Turner Field? The Red Sox banging out 38 hits good for 25 runs
against the mighty Atlanta Braves?

   So why does my tummy feel as if I just swallowed a shot put?

   Here's why:

   &UR; IP &LR;   &UR; H &LR;   &UR; R &LR;   &UR; ER &LR;   &UR; HR &LR;   &UR; ERA &LR;  &QL;

   24 37 23 23 12 8.63 &QL;

   That's Our Pedro in his last four starts.

   Pass the Tums.

   ``Did he get a win or a loss?'' snapped Jimy Williams, the
well-known Eternal Optimist. ``Did he get a win? You play to win.''

   OK, well, yes, Skip. Your team won, 10-6, Wednesday night and
somebody had to be the winning pitcher _ it's a bookkeeping thing _
and that somebody was Pedro Martinez. But are you honestly telling
us you're not disturbed that your ace gave up four home runs (no
cheapies) for the second consecutive start, not bothered that he
was unable to adequately protect leads of 4-0, 5-1, and 8-3 before
you had to pull him with three runs in and an Andres Galarraga home
run still soaring off into the night in the bottom of the seventh?
We love ya, Jimy, but sometimes you can strain credulity. I'd say
you'd darn well better be worried.

   For five innings, there wasn't much to worry about. At that
point, Pedro was in command. He had struck out six, three of them
on three pitches. He was throwing first-pitch strikes. He was
sitting on a 5-1 lead, the only Atlanta run coming on a homer by
Ryan Klesko in the fourth.

   ``I think they made a big adjustment on me,'' Martinez
suggested. ``That's how good a team they are. What good players
they are. I'm just glad my team just overpowered them for me.''

   So many good things are happening right now. Mo Vaughn
(pressure-relieving two-run homer in the ninth) is swinging the bat
the way Mo Vaughn can. John Valentin reported before the game that
he was ``feeling better'' at the plate, then demonstrated what he
was talking about by blasting two-run homers in each of his first
two at-bats off starter and loser Denny Neagle, a 20-game winner in
1997. Nomar Garciaparra had two more hits and is back on his way to
the Brett Line (.284 and climbing.)

   The middle relief remains solid. Ron Mahay retired the only man
he faced and Rich Garces smoked 'em in the eighth. Tom Gordon
worked for the first time since his aberrational ninth inning
Monday and, though taxed (three 3-and-2 counts in a 27-pitch ninth
inning), managed to get his job done.

   And then there was the defense, a word not always associated
with Your Boston Red Sox.

   Start with center fielder Damon Buford, who made what has to be
the Red Sox outfield play of 1998, a classic bring-'em-back-alive
grab of a sure Tony Graffanino home run in the perilous sixth
inning. People make that type of catch on occasion, but they don't
make them any better than this. Buford had to run full speed into
the fence right near the 400-foot sign. I remember Earl Weaver once
saying that the great Paul Blair made this kind of catch many times
and that he made the catch look easy. I would like to think Paul
Blair would have been proud to claim this catch as his own.

   And then what did Damon Buford do when it was his turn to bat in
the top of the seventh? He followed up a Vaughn whiff by smashing
Neagle's first pitch over the left-field fence for a three-run
homer. Not a bad evening for Damon Buford.

   Less dramatic, but no less an athletic feat, was a play
Garciaparra made in the bottom of the eighth. Andruw Jones, whom
Pedro had taken to the old escuela (three K's on 10 pitches),
finally got his bat on the ball. He hit one into the hole. Nomar
got the ball and came up throwing _ horribly off balance. I mean,
there is no way you can get any mustard on a throw with your body
contorted the way Nomar's was. Then factor in Jones's great speed
and you've got to be looking at an infield single. Well, guess
what. Out at first, and no argument, either. Nomar's shoulder must
be feeling OK.

   We had the overall team batting performance against wily Tom
Glavine Monday. We had the Bret Saberhagen performance Tuesday. We
had Darren Lewis on base three times in each of the three games,
and isn't that what a leadoff man is supposed to do? It goes on and
on. There was so much to like, so much for any Red Sox fan to hang
his or her hat on.

   ``It was a good series for us,'' confirmed Vaughn. ``We came
back from the first-night disappointment and we played solid ball.
We beat a great team in a great city and a great ballpark. It was
positive and we should be uplifted.''

   But who can dwell on any of it when Pedro is getting smacked
around like this? How far can this team go if it needs eight runs
every time Pedro Martinez takes the mound?

   ``It was a great series for us,'' said Martinez, ``especially
with me pitching like this. I pray to God I can turn this around,
and when I do, with this rotation going the way it is, we can do
some serious business.''

   My head hears you, Pedro. My heart hears you, too. But do you
mind telling it to my stomach?
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0043 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 07:17 ',
			header: '
A4289 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BBA-REDSOX-BRAVES-BOS     06-11 0804
',
			slug: ' BC-BBA-REDSOX-BRAVES-BOS ',
			headline: '
MARTINEZ SHELLED, BUT RED SOX SURVIVE 
',
			trailer: '
   ATLANTA _ There's no relief in sight for the ``What's wrong with
Pedro?'' crowd.

   They're still on 24-hour alert after Red Sox ace Pedro Martinez
was pounded once again Wednesday night, this time by the Atlanta
Braves, and this time back on National League turf familiar to him.
The man who never gave up four home runs in a game until his last
start did it again in Turner Field, and the count could have been
five except for a fence-climbing catch by center fielder Damon
Buford.

   But Martinez was not left without a safety net by his teammates.
They responded with four home runs of their own _ two early two-run
jobs by John Valentin, late thunder by Buford and Mo Vaughn _ to
take the rubber game of their three-game set against the NL's
finest, 10-6.

   ``Honestly, I wish I could have the answer to the question you
just asked me: `What's wrong?''' said Martinez, who was credited
with his seventh win even though he gave up six runs and nine hits
in 6 2/3 innings, his ERA climbing to 3.46, twice what it was four
starts ago.

   ``I did everything I could. I made my pitches. I was strong. I
was throwing the ball hard. I was on top of everybody.

   ``I'm very concerned about my situation right now. I feel a
little embarrassed to come out there and act like that. That's not
me. I know that. But I'm in it and there's nothing I can do. I'm
just glad my team overpowered them and outhit them. Otherwise, we
would have been way behind.

   ``I think this is the worst (stretch he's ever had). I don't
usually pay attention to statistics, but I don't think I've ever
been hit like this. I've never been more frustrated about giving it
up than right now.''

   Martinez was spared his third loss only because the Red Sox did
their part in transforming a matchup of the NL's 1997 Cy Young
Award winner (Martinez) and the NL's only 20-game winner last
season (Denny Neagle) into home run derby. The eight home runs were
the most in a game since Turner Field opened last year.

   ``Maybe we should play 18 innings and the score would be 40-28
or something,'' said Bobby Cox, the aggravated Braves manager.
``The ball is jumping all over the ballparks again. Baltimore is a
bandbox and this ballpark is playing small, too. Get (a pitch) up
and it's going to go.''

   The Red Sox returned home after doing a
Sherman-march-through-Georgia number on the Braves' vaunted
pitching staff, torching Atlanta for 25 runs in three games. That's
the most runs allowed in three consecutive games this season by the
Braves, who finished the night without Cox, ejected in the seventh
after disputing an attempted pickoff of Valentin at first base by
catcher Javy Lopez.

   Umpire Greg Bonin ruled that Valentin dived in safely before
being tagged by Andres Galarraga, who had two homers off Martinez.
The call became critical when Nomar Garciaparra followed with a
single and Buford launched his third home run of the season to make
it 8-3.

   The inning before, when the Braves had drawn within 5-3 on
Galarraga's first homer, a two-run shot, Buford had leaped over the
400-foot sign in dead center to deprive Tony Graffanino of a
game-tying two-run homer.

   ``I think I can hit it a little better, but not much,''
Graffanino said. ``I thought I'd tied it up, but (Buford) caught
it. Then he came back and hit one. That's a five-run swing right
there.''

   Martinez, who required relief help with an 11-1 lead against the
Yankees two weeks ago, needed the same with a five-run lead against
the Braves, who knocked him out with two outs in the seventh after
back-to-back homers by strongmen Chipper Jones and Galarraga.

   Ron Mahay got the last out of the seventh, Rich Garces pitched a
1-2-3 eighth, and Tom Gordon rebounded from his Monday night
massacre to put away the Braves.

   Vaughn eased some of the pressure on Gordon with his two-run
homer in the top of the ninth off reliever Kerry Ligtenberg, his
19th of the season.

   ``All three games here were mentally draining,'' said Buford,
who on Monday night had made a fence-scraping catch to take extra
bases away from Galarraga. ``It's good to come into Atlanta and
leave with two wins.''

   Even if most of the conversation about this win will revolve
about what went wrong with Pedro rather than what went right with
the Sox.

   ``I don't worry about him,'' Vaughn said. ``He's a great
pitcher. He'll settle down.''

   Maybe so, but at the moment, even Martinez has his doubts.

   ``I just have to keep pitching and let things take care of
themselves,'' he said. ``I'll keep getting hammered if I have to.
I've just got to keep pitching. I'm just glad the team got the
win.''
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By GORDON EDES  
 c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATLANTA _ There's no relief in sight for the ``What's wrong with
Pedro?'' crowd.

   They're still on 24-hour alert after Red Sox ace Pedro Martinez
was pounded once again Wednesday night, this time by the Atlanta
Braves, and this time back on National League turf familiar to him.
The man who never gave up four home runs in a game until his last
start did it again in Turner Field, and the count could have been
five except for a fence-climbing catch by center fielder Damon
Buford.

   But Martinez was not left without a safety net by his teammates.
They responded with four home runs of their own _ two early two-run
jobs by John Valentin, late thunder by Buford and Mo Vaughn _ to
take the rubber game of their three-game set against the NL's
finest, 10-6.

   ``Honestly, I wish I could have the answer to the question you
just asked me: `What's wrong?''' said Martinez, who was credited
with his seventh win even though he gave up six runs and nine hits
in 6 2/3 innings, his ERA climbing to 3.46, twice what it was four
starts ago.

   ``I did everything I could. I made my pitches. I was strong. I
was throwing the ball hard. I was on top of everybody.

   ``I'm very concerned about my situation right now. I feel a
little embarrassed to come out there and act like that. That's not
me. I know that. But I'm in it and there's nothing I can do. I'm
just glad my team overpowered them and outhit them. Otherwise, we
would have been way behind.

   ``I think this is the worst (stretch he's ever had). I don't
usually pay attention to statistics, but I don't think I've ever
been hit like this. I've never been more frustrated about giving it
up than right now.''

   Martinez was spared his third loss only because the Red Sox did
their part in transforming a matchup of the NL's 1997 Cy Young
Award winner (Martinez) and the NL's only 20-game winner last
season (Denny Neagle) into home run derby. The eight home runs were
the most in a game since Turner Field opened last year.

   ``Maybe we should play 18 innings and the score would be 40-28
or something,'' said Bobby Cox, the aggravated Braves manager.
``The ball is jumping all over the ballparks again. Baltimore is a
bandbox and this ballpark is playing small, too. Get (a pitch) up
and it's going to go.''

   The Red Sox returned home after doing a
Sherman-march-through-Georgia number on the Braves' vaunted
pitching staff, torching Atlanta for 25 runs in three games. That's
the most runs allowed in three consecutive games this season by the
Braves, who finished the night without Cox, ejected in the seventh
after disputing an attempted pickoff of Valentin at first base by
catcher Javy Lopez.

   Umpire Greg Bonin ruled that Valentin dived in safely before
being tagged by Andres Galarraga, who had two homers off Martinez.
The call became critical when Nomar Garciaparra followed with a
single and Buford launched his third home run of the season to make
it 8-3.

   The inning before, when the Braves had drawn within 5-3 on
Galarraga's first homer, a two-run shot, Buford had leaped over the
400-foot sign in dead center to deprive Tony Graffanino of a
game-tying two-run homer.

   ``I think I can hit it a little better, but not much,''
Graffanino said. ``I thought I'd tied it up, but (Buford) caught
it. Then he came back and hit one. That's a five-run swing right
there.''

   Martinez, who required relief help with an 11-1 lead against the
Yankees two weeks ago, needed the same with a five-run lead against
the Braves, who knocked him out with two outs in the seventh after
back-to-back homers by strongmen Chipper Jones and Galarraga.

   Ron Mahay got the last out of the seventh, Rich Garces pitched a
1-2-3 eighth, and Tom Gordon rebounded from his Monday night
massacre to put away the Braves.

   Vaughn eased some of the pressure on Gordon with his two-run
homer in the top of the ninth off reliever Kerry Ligtenberg, his
19th of the season.

   ``All three games here were mentally draining,'' said Buford,
who on Monday night had made a fence-scraping catch to take extra
bases away from Galarraga. ``It's good to come into Atlanta and
leave with two wins.''

   Even if most of the conversation about this win will revolve
about what went wrong with Pedro rather than what went right with
the Sox.

   ``I don't worry about him,'' Vaughn said. ``He's a great
pitcher. He'll settle down.''

   Maybe so, but at the moment, even Martinez has his doubts.

   ``I just have to keep pitching and let things take care of
themselves,'' he said. ``I'll keep getting hammered if I have to.
I've just got to keep pitching. I'm just glad the team got the
win.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0044 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 07:46 ',
			header: '
A4296 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GREETINGS-NYT &LR;      06-11 0162
',
			slug: ' BC-GREETINGS-NYT ',
			headline: '
EDITORS:
',
			trailer: '
   Good morning. The New York Times News Service has reopened for
the day.

   &UR; Questions or reruns: &LR;

   The day supervisor is Gary E. McCardell

   Phone: (212) 556-1927

   E-mail: garymc(at)nytimes.com

   Other numbers to call:

   &UR; Technical Problems: &LR;

   Peter Trigg

   Phone: (212) 499-3332

   Pager: (800) 946-4645 (PIN 599-4539)

   E-mail: triggp(at)nytimes.com

   &UR; Photos and graphics: &LR;

   The Photo-Graphics editor is Deborah Marchand

   Phone: (212) 556-4204.

   E-mail: marchand(at)nytimes.com

   &UR; Also part of The New York News Service: &LR;

   News stories and features daily from Bloomberg News, The Boston
Globe, The Cox Newspapers, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston
Chronicle, The Arizona Republic, Kansas City Star, Los Angeles
Daily News, San Francisco Chronicle, Fort Worth Star-Telegram,
Seattle Post-Intelligencer, States News Service and the New York
Times Regional Newspapers.
',
			body: '



',
			paragraphs: '
   Good morning. The New York Times News Service has reopened for
the day.

   &UR; Questions or reruns: &LR;

   The day supervisor is Gary E. McCardell

   Phone: (212) 556-1927

   E-mail: garymc(at)nytimes.com

   Other numbers to call:

   &UR; Technical Problems: &LR;

   Peter Trigg

   Phone: (212) 499-3332

   Pager: (800) 946-4645 (PIN 599-4539)

   E-mail: triggp(at)nytimes.com

   &UR; Photos and graphics: &LR;

   The Photo-Graphics editor is Deborah Marchand

   Phone: (212) 556-4204.

   E-mail: marchand(at)nytimes.com

   &UR; Also part of The New York News Service: &LR;

   News stories and features daily from Bloomberg News, The Boston
Globe, The Cox Newspapers, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston
Chronicle, The Arizona Republic, Kansas City Star, Los Angeles
Daily News, San Francisco Chronicle, Fort Worth Star-Telegram,
Seattle Post-Intelligencer, States News Service and the New York
Times Regional Newspapers.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0045 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 09:33 ',
			header: '
A4357 &Cx1f; tad-z
u k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TEEPEN-COLUMN14-COX     06-11 0567
',
			slug: ' BC-TEEPEN-COLUMN14-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   A far from colorblind criminal justice system is turning a
bad-enough black disproportion in crime into an even worse
disproportion in needless social damage. It is deepening and
perpetuating poverty, undermining family formation and, in the name
of fighting crime, creating crime.

   A confluence of recent studies has produced a powerful stream of
evidence.

   Marc Mauer of The Sentencing Project reports that research in
New York state found minorities receive 4,000 more jail sentences a
year for property crimes and misdemeanors than they would have if
they had been white. That sets up a cycle in which repeat crime
becomes more rather than less likely.

   Drug crimes accounted for 42 percent of the increase in African
Americans in prison between 1985 and 1995 but only 26 percent of
the white increase _ in major part because the law treats offenses
involving crack cocaine, used mainly by the black poor, more
severely than offenses with powder cocaine, the white middle class
drug of choice.

   There is a strong tie between poverty, especially concentrated
poverty, and crime, and because poverty remains worst among
minorities, the weight of incarceration falls most heavily on them.
That's all the more so thanks to cutbacks in federal and state
programs that have provided competent attorneys to the poor.

   The already notorious racial bias in death penalties becomes
still more noxious with a study from Philadelphia that finds black
defendants nearly four times more likely than whites to be
sentenced to death for comparable murders.

   And all of this occurs against a long-established background of
studies showing that at every point in the criminal justice system,
blacks are more likely than whites to suffer the most burdensome
outcomes.

   That begins with unprovoked traffic stops _ the ``crime'' of
DWB: driving while black _ and with street cops deciding whether to
run a kid into juvenile court or take him home to scolding parents.
The bias compiles all the way up the line to prosecutors who decide
whether to seek a maximum or a minimum sentence.

   The cumulative effect: A third of black men between the ages of
20 and 29 are under criminal justice control. On any given day, 7
percent of black men are in prison or jail. A black male born in
1991 has a 29 percent chance of going to prison. Hispanics have a
16 percent chance. Whites, 4 percent.

   That means, among other social deformities, that a third of
black men have, at best, poor job prospects and scant promise as
marriage partners. And that in turn virtually guarantees more
crime.

   This is not fate. We can cut the de facto racial tilt out of
drug laws. We can substitute treatment for imprisonment for most
drug offenses; it is cheaper and works better. We can stop
imprisoning most nonviolent offenders in favor of, again, cheaper
and more effective interventions. We can bolster indigent defense,
require that criminal statutes be vetted for their risks of racial
inequity, restore case-by-case discretion in place of overwrought
mandatory sentences.

   Please note: ``We can'' is not the same as ``We will.''

   E-mail: teepencolumn(at)coxnews.com

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    COMMENTARY: Color-based crime-fighting is creating crime
 &HT;    By Tom Teepen
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   A far from colorblind criminal justice system is turning a
bad-enough black disproportion in crime into an even worse
disproportion in needless social damage. It is deepening and
perpetuating poverty, undermining family formation and, in the name
of fighting crime, creating crime.

   A confluence of recent studies has produced a powerful stream of
evidence.

   Marc Mauer of The Sentencing Project reports that research in
New York state found minorities receive 4,000 more jail sentences a
year for property crimes and misdemeanors than they would have if
they had been white. That sets up a cycle in which repeat crime
becomes more rather than less likely.

   Drug crimes accounted for 42 percent of the increase in African
Americans in prison between 1985 and 1995 but only 26 percent of
the white increase _ in major part because the law treats offenses
involving crack cocaine, used mainly by the black poor, more
severely than offenses with powder cocaine, the white middle class
drug of choice.

   There is a strong tie between poverty, especially concentrated
poverty, and crime, and because poverty remains worst among
minorities, the weight of incarceration falls most heavily on them.
That's all the more so thanks to cutbacks in federal and state
programs that have provided competent attorneys to the poor.

   The already notorious racial bias in death penalties becomes
still more noxious with a study from Philadelphia that finds black
defendants nearly four times more likely than whites to be
sentenced to death for comparable murders.

   And all of this occurs against a long-established background of
studies showing that at every point in the criminal justice system,
blacks are more likely than whites to suffer the most burdensome
outcomes.

   That begins with unprovoked traffic stops _ the ``crime'' of
DWB: driving while black _ and with street cops deciding whether to
run a kid into juvenile court or take him home to scolding parents.
The bias compiles all the way up the line to prosecutors who decide
whether to seek a maximum or a minimum sentence.

   The cumulative effect: A third of black men between the ages of
20 and 29 are under criminal justice control. On any given day, 7
percent of black men are in prison or jail. A black male born in
1991 has a 29 percent chance of going to prison. Hispanics have a
16 percent chance. Whites, 4 percent.

   That means, among other social deformities, that a third of
black men have, at best, poor job prospects and scant promise as
marriage partners. And that in turn virtually guarantees more
crime.

   This is not fate. We can cut the de facto racial tilt out of
drug laws. We can substitute treatment for imprisonment for most
drug offenses; it is cheaper and works better. We can stop
imprisoning most nonviolent offenders in favor of, again, cheaper
and more effective interventions. We can bolster indigent defense,
require that criminal statutes be vetted for their risks of racial
inequity, restore case-by-case discretion in place of overwrought
mandatory sentences.

   Please note: ``We can'' is not the same as ``We will.''

   E-mail: teepencolumn(at)coxnews.com

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0046 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 10:11 ',
			header: '
A4392 &Cx1f; tad-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE     06-11 1006
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE1-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   Have a question about the news? Colin Bessonette will try to get
an answer. Call 404-222-2002, or write him at The Atlanta
Journal-Constitution, P.O. Box 4689, Atlanta, Ga. 30302, or e-mail
him at q&AMP;a(at)ajc.com

   Q: I was living in Rhode Island during the Claus von Bulow trial
for attempted murder. People followed it with as much fascination
as they did O.J. Simpson's trial. How about an update on Sunny von
Bulow? Is she still alive? And can you refresh my memory about the
circumstances of her case?

   A: As of late March, the Boston Globe reported that
millionairess Martha von Bulow, nicknamed Sunny, remained in an
irreversible coma at New York's Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. But
a hospital spokesman, Bob de Luna, now says she's no longer there.
He declined to provide any further details, saying information
about patients is confidential. Diane Alexander, a spokeswoman for
the National Victim Center in Arlington, Va., which was co-founded
by Von Bulow's daughter, Ala Isham, says that ``as far as we know,
her (Von Bulow's') condition is unchanged.'' Alexander declined to
provide any further information, including Von Bulow's whereabouts.

   The woman's former husband, Danish-born socialite Claus von
Bulow, was acquitted in 1985 at a second trial on charges he tried
to murder her. He was accused of attempting to kill her by
injecting her with insulin in December 1979 and again in December
1980. She recovered from the first coma, but went into another coma
a year later. Defense attorneys argued that she brought on the
comas herself through alcohol and drug abuse. In 1987, Claus von
Bulow agreed to a divorce and renounced all claim on his wife's $80
million fortune.

   One positive upshot of the Sunny von Bulow case is the National
Victim Center. Established in 1985 in her honor, it serves as a
resource center for more than 8,000 victim advocacy and criminal
justice organizations, with the aim of protecting the rights of
victims of violent crime.

   Q: Where can I get information about Teen Mania Ministries? I
understand it sends American teenagers to foreign countries to
convert their audiences to Christianity.

   A: Teen Mania Ministries describes itself as one of the nation's
largest youth ministry programs. A non-profit 501(c)3 organization,
it was founded in 1986. Since then, it has taken more than 10,000
American teens to 35 countries. This summer, it plans to take 4,000
young people to 20 countries, a spokeswoman said.

   Information: Teen Mania Ministries, P.O. Box 2000, Garden
Valley, TX 75771-2000 (1-800-438-2392); or, on the Internet:
www.teenmania.org/index.html

   Q: My son says he thinks Australia has nuclear weapons
capability, and has detonated bombs. I haven't heard that. Can you
list all the countries with nuclear bomb capability? A dinner is
riding on this.

   A: Make him take you to Outback, and order big. Australia is not
among nations having declared or undeclared nuclear weapons
capacity, and it is not believed to have had nuclear weapons in the
past.

   Using information provided by the Natural Resouces Defense
Council, the Arms Control Association, and the Institute for
Science and International Security, Congressional Quarterly
recently provided a breakdown on the spread of such weapons.
Countries with declared nuclear weapons capacity: United States,
Britain, France, Russia, China, India, Pakistan. Country with
undeclared capacity: Israel. Countries seeking weapons capacity:
Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Libya. Countries that gave up nuclear
weapons: Belarus, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, South Africa. Countries that
ended nuclear weapons programs: Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, South
Korea, Sweden, Taiwan.

   Q: I haven't seen the list of hurricane names for 1998. What are
they?

   A: Alex, Bonnie, Charley, Danielle, Earl, Frances, Georges,
Hermine, Ivan, Jeanne, Karl, Lisa, Mitch, Nicole, Otto, Paula,
Richard, Shary, Tomas, Virginie and Walter.

   Q: How unusual is it for a student to score a perfect 1600 on
the Scholastic Assessement Test?

   A: The College Board, which administers the SAT, uses the term
``maximum score'' as opposed to ``perfect,'' because it's possible
to make an error or two and still score 1600, said spokesman Ed
Tate. In 1996-97, the most recent year for which statistics are
available, 1.8 million people took the test a total of 2.05 million
times (many people took it more than one time); 453 scored 1600.

   Q: Who in the Sam Hill was Sam Hill?

   A: If you want to accept the explanation presented by Edwin V.
Mitchell in the book Encyclopedia of American Politics (1946), the
expression can be traced to a Col. Samuel Hill of Guilford, Conn.,
who perpetually ran for office but failed to be elected. The book
says that led to the phrases ``go like Sam Hill'' or ``run like Sam
Hill.'' But since the existence of a Col. Samuel Hill can't be
documented, Sam Hill must remain a personalized euphemism first
coined by frontiersman for ``hell,'' especially when they had to
clean up their language in the presence of ladies.

   Q: Why do Atlanta Braves games always start at 10 minutes or 40
minutes after the hour, as opposed to on the hour or on the
half-hour?

   A: Credit the creativity of Ted Turner. He launched his concept
on June 29, 1981. He had a two-fold reason for beginning TBS
programming slightly off the traditional hour and half-hour
starting times, according to Tom Hughes of TBS Sports. First, it
would separate TBS from all the other stations and networks in TV
listings, ``making TBS stand out.'' And second, if people tuned
into network programming at the top of the hour or on the half-hour
and didn't like what they saw, they could surf; and when they found
TBS, they wouldn't miss the beginning of the game or program.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Q &AMP; A ON THE NEWS
 &HT;    By Colin Bessonette
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   Have a question about the news? Colin Bessonette will try to get
an answer. Call 404-222-2002, or write him at The Atlanta
Journal-Constitution, P.O. Box 4689, Atlanta, Ga. 30302, or e-mail
him at q&AMP;a(at)ajc.com

   Q: I was living in Rhode Island during the Claus von Bulow trial
for attempted murder. People followed it with as much fascination
as they did O.J. Simpson's trial. How about an update on Sunny von
Bulow? Is she still alive? And can you refresh my memory about the
circumstances of her case?

   A: As of late March, the Boston Globe reported that
millionairess Martha von Bulow, nicknamed Sunny, remained in an
irreversible coma at New York's Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. But
a hospital spokesman, Bob de Luna, now says she's no longer there.
He declined to provide any further details, saying information
about patients is confidential. Diane Alexander, a spokeswoman for
the National Victim Center in Arlington, Va., which was co-founded
by Von Bulow's daughter, Ala Isham, says that ``as far as we know,
her (Von Bulow's') condition is unchanged.'' Alexander declined to
provide any further information, including Von Bulow's whereabouts.

   The woman's former husband, Danish-born socialite Claus von
Bulow, was acquitted in 1985 at a second trial on charges he tried
to murder her. He was accused of attempting to kill her by
injecting her with insulin in December 1979 and again in December
1980. She recovered from the first coma, but went into another coma
a year later. Defense attorneys argued that she brought on the
comas herself through alcohol and drug abuse. In 1987, Claus von
Bulow agreed to a divorce and renounced all claim on his wife's $80
million fortune.

   One positive upshot of the Sunny von Bulow case is the National
Victim Center. Established in 1985 in her honor, it serves as a
resource center for more than 8,000 victim advocacy and criminal
justice organizations, with the aim of protecting the rights of
victims of violent crime.

   Q: Where can I get information about Teen Mania Ministries? I
understand it sends American teenagers to foreign countries to
convert their audiences to Christianity.

   A: Teen Mania Ministries describes itself as one of the nation's
largest youth ministry programs. A non-profit 501(c)3 organization,
it was founded in 1986. Since then, it has taken more than 10,000
American teens to 35 countries. This summer, it plans to take 4,000
young people to 20 countries, a spokeswoman said.

   Information: Teen Mania Ministries, P.O. Box 2000, Garden
Valley, TX 75771-2000 (1-800-438-2392); or, on the Internet:
www.teenmania.org/index.html

   Q: My son says he thinks Australia has nuclear weapons
capability, and has detonated bombs. I haven't heard that. Can you
list all the countries with nuclear bomb capability? A dinner is
riding on this.

   A: Make him take you to Outback, and order big. Australia is not
among nations having declared or undeclared nuclear weapons
capacity, and it is not believed to have had nuclear weapons in the
past.

   Using information provided by the Natural Resouces Defense
Council, the Arms Control Association, and the Institute for
Science and International Security, Congressional Quarterly
recently provided a breakdown on the spread of such weapons.
Countries with declared nuclear weapons capacity: United States,
Britain, France, Russia, China, India, Pakistan. Country with
undeclared capacity: Israel. Countries seeking weapons capacity:
Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Libya. Countries that gave up nuclear
weapons: Belarus, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, South Africa. Countries that
ended nuclear weapons programs: Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, South
Korea, Sweden, Taiwan.

   Q: I haven't seen the list of hurricane names for 1998. What are
they?

   A: Alex, Bonnie, Charley, Danielle, Earl, Frances, Georges,
Hermine, Ivan, Jeanne, Karl, Lisa, Mitch, Nicole, Otto, Paula,
Richard, Shary, Tomas, Virginie and Walter.

   Q: How unusual is it for a student to score a perfect 1600 on
the Scholastic Assessement Test?

   A: The College Board, which administers the SAT, uses the term
``maximum score'' as opposed to ``perfect,'' because it's possible
to make an error or two and still score 1600, said spokesman Ed
Tate. In 1996-97, the most recent year for which statistics are
available, 1.8 million people took the test a total of 2.05 million
times (many people took it more than one time); 453 scored 1600.

   Q: Who in the Sam Hill was Sam Hill?

   A: If you want to accept the explanation presented by Edwin V.
Mitchell in the book Encyclopedia of American Politics (1946), the
expression can be traced to a Col. Samuel Hill of Guilford, Conn.,
who perpetually ran for office but failed to be elected. The book
says that led to the phrases ``go like Sam Hill'' or ``run like Sam
Hill.'' But since the existence of a Col. Samuel Hill can't be
documented, Sam Hill must remain a personalized euphemism first
coined by frontiersman for ``hell,'' especially when they had to
clean up their language in the presence of ladies.

   Q: Why do Atlanta Braves games always start at 10 minutes or 40
minutes after the hour, as opposed to on the hour or on the
half-hour?

   A: Credit the creativity of Ted Turner. He launched his concept
on June 29, 1981. He had a two-fold reason for beginning TBS
programming slightly off the traditional hour and half-hour
starting times, according to Tom Hughes of TBS Sports. First, it
would separate TBS from all the other stations and networks in TV
listings, ``making TBS stand out.'' And second, if people tuned
into network programming at the top of the hour or on the half-hour
and didn't like what they saw, they could surf; and when they found
TBS, they wouldn't miss the beginning of the game or program.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0047 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 10:11 ',
			header: '
A4393 &Cx1f; tad-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE     06-11 1006
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE1-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   Have a question about the news? Colin Bessonette will try to get
an answer. Call 404-222-2002, or write him at The Atlanta
Journal-Constitution, P.O. Box 4689, Atlanta, Ga. 30302, or e-mail
him at q&AMP;a(at)ajc.com

   Q: I was living in Rhode Island during the Claus von Bulow trial
for attempted murder. People followed it with as much fascination
as they did O.J. Simpson's trial. How about an update on Sunny von
Bulow? Is she still alive? And can you refresh my memory about the
circumstances of her case?

   A: As of late March, the Boston Globe reported that
millionairess Martha von Bulow, nicknamed Sunny, remained in an
irreversible coma at New York's Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. But
a hospital spokesman, Bob de Luna, now says she's no longer there.
He declined to provide any further details, saying information
about patients is confidential. Diane Alexander, a spokeswoman for
the National Victim Center in Arlington, Va., which was co-founded
by Von Bulow's daughter, Ala Isham, says that ``as far as we know,
her (Von Bulow's') condition is unchanged.'' Alexander declined to
provide any further information, including Von Bulow's whereabouts.

   The woman's former husband, Danish-born socialite Claus von
Bulow, was acquitted in 1985 at a second trial on charges he tried
to murder her. He was accused of attempting to kill her by
injecting her with insulin in December 1979 and again in December
1980. She recovered from the first coma, but went into another coma
a year later. Defense attorneys argued that she brought on the
comas herself through alcohol and drug abuse. In 1987, Claus von
Bulow agreed to a divorce and renounced all claim on his wife's $80
million fortune.

   One positive upshot of the Sunny von Bulow case is the National
Victim Center. Established in 1985 in her honor, it serves as a
resource center for more than 8,000 victim advocacy and criminal
justice organizations, with the aim of protecting the rights of
victims of violent crime.

   Q: Where can I get information about Teen Mania Ministries? I
understand it sends American teenagers to foreign countries to
convert their audiences to Christianity.

   A: Teen Mania Ministries describes itself as one of the nation's
largest youth ministry programs. A non-profit 501(c)3 organization,
it was founded in 1986. Since then, it has taken more than 10,000
American teens to 35 countries. This summer, it plans to take 4,000
young people to 20 countries, a spokeswoman said.

   Information: Teen Mania Ministries, P.O. Box 2000, Garden
Valley, TX 75771-2000 (1-800-438-2392); or, on the Internet:
www.teenmania.org/index.html

   Q: My son says he thinks Australia has nuclear weapons
capability, and has detonated bombs. I haven't heard that. Can you
list all the countries with nuclear bomb capability? A dinner is
riding on this.

   A: Make him take you to Outback, and order big. Australia is not
among nations having declared or undeclared nuclear weapons
capacity, and it is not believed to have had nuclear weapons in the
past.

   Using information provided by the Natural Resouces Defense
Council, the Arms Control Association, and the Institute for
Science and International Security, Congressional Quarterly
recently provided a breakdown on the spread of such weapons.
Countries with declared nuclear weapons capacity: United States,
Britain, France, Russia, China, India, Pakistan. Country with
undeclared capacity: Israel. Countries seeking weapons capacity:
Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Libya. Countries that gave up nuclear
weapons: Belarus, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, South Africa. Countries that
ended nuclear weapons programs: Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, South
Korea, Sweden, Taiwan.

   Q: I haven't seen the list of hurricane names for 1998. What are
they?

   A: Alex, Bonnie, Charley, Danielle, Earl, Frances, Georges,
Hermine, Ivan, Jeanne, Karl, Lisa, Mitch, Nicole, Otto, Paula,
Richard, Shary, Tomas, Virginie and Walter.

   Q: How unusual is it for a student to score a perfect 1600 on
the Scholastic Assessement Test?

   A: The College Board, which administers the SAT, uses the term
``maximum score'' as opposed to ``perfect,'' because it's possible
to make an error or two and still score 1600, said spokesman Ed
Tate. In 1996-97, the most recent year for which statistics are
available, 1.8 million people took the test a total of 2.05 million
times (many people took it more than one time); 453 scored 1600.

   Q: Who in the Sam Hill was Sam Hill?

   A: If you want to accept the explanation presented by Edwin V.
Mitchell in the book Encyclopedia of American Politics (1946), the
expression can be traced to a Col. Samuel Hill of Guilford, Conn.,
who perpetually ran for office but failed to be elected. The book
says that led to the phrases ``go like Sam Hill'' or ``run like Sam
Hill.'' But since the existence of a Col. Samuel Hill can't be
documented, Sam Hill must remain a personalized euphemism first
coined by frontiersman for ``hell,'' especially when they had to
clean up their language in the presence of ladies.

   Q: Why do Atlanta Braves games always start at 10 minutes or 40
minutes after the hour, as opposed to on the hour or on the
half-hour?

   A: Credit the creativity of Ted Turner. He launched his concept
on June 29, 1981. He had a two-fold reason for beginning TBS
programming slightly off the traditional hour and half-hour
starting times, according to Tom Hughes of TBS Sports. First, it
would separate TBS from all the other stations and networks in TV
listings, ``making TBS stand out.'' And second, if people tuned
into network programming at the top of the hour or on the half-hour
and didn't like what they saw, they could surf; and when they found
TBS, they wouldn't miss the beginning of the game or program.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Q &AMP; A ON THE NEWS
 &HT;    By Colin Bessonette
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   Have a question about the news? Colin Bessonette will try to get
an answer. Call 404-222-2002, or write him at The Atlanta
Journal-Constitution, P.O. Box 4689, Atlanta, Ga. 30302, or e-mail
him at q&AMP;a(at)ajc.com

   Q: I was living in Rhode Island during the Claus von Bulow trial
for attempted murder. People followed it with as much fascination
as they did O.J. Simpson's trial. How about an update on Sunny von
Bulow? Is she still alive? And can you refresh my memory about the
circumstances of her case?

   A: As of late March, the Boston Globe reported that
millionairess Martha von Bulow, nicknamed Sunny, remained in an
irreversible coma at New York's Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. But
a hospital spokesman, Bob de Luna, now says she's no longer there.
He declined to provide any further details, saying information
about patients is confidential. Diane Alexander, a spokeswoman for
the National Victim Center in Arlington, Va., which was co-founded
by Von Bulow's daughter, Ala Isham, says that ``as far as we know,
her (Von Bulow's') condition is unchanged.'' Alexander declined to
provide any further information, including Von Bulow's whereabouts.

   The woman's former husband, Danish-born socialite Claus von
Bulow, was acquitted in 1985 at a second trial on charges he tried
to murder her. He was accused of attempting to kill her by
injecting her with insulin in December 1979 and again in December
1980. She recovered from the first coma, but went into another coma
a year later. Defense attorneys argued that she brought on the
comas herself through alcohol and drug abuse. In 1987, Claus von
Bulow agreed to a divorce and renounced all claim on his wife's $80
million fortune.

   One positive upshot of the Sunny von Bulow case is the National
Victim Center. Established in 1985 in her honor, it serves as a
resource center for more than 8,000 victim advocacy and criminal
justice organizations, with the aim of protecting the rights of
victims of violent crime.

   Q: Where can I get information about Teen Mania Ministries? I
understand it sends American teenagers to foreign countries to
convert their audiences to Christianity.

   A: Teen Mania Ministries describes itself as one of the nation's
largest youth ministry programs. A non-profit 501(c)3 organization,
it was founded in 1986. Since then, it has taken more than 10,000
American teens to 35 countries. This summer, it plans to take 4,000
young people to 20 countries, a spokeswoman said.

   Information: Teen Mania Ministries, P.O. Box 2000, Garden
Valley, TX 75771-2000 (1-800-438-2392); or, on the Internet:
www.teenmania.org/index.html

   Q: My son says he thinks Australia has nuclear weapons
capability, and has detonated bombs. I haven't heard that. Can you
list all the countries with nuclear bomb capability? A dinner is
riding on this.

   A: Make him take you to Outback, and order big. Australia is not
among nations having declared or undeclared nuclear weapons
capacity, and it is not believed to have had nuclear weapons in the
past.

   Using information provided by the Natural Resouces Defense
Council, the Arms Control Association, and the Institute for
Science and International Security, Congressional Quarterly
recently provided a breakdown on the spread of such weapons.
Countries with declared nuclear weapons capacity: United States,
Britain, France, Russia, China, India, Pakistan. Country with
undeclared capacity: Israel. Countries seeking weapons capacity:
Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Libya. Countries that gave up nuclear
weapons: Belarus, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, South Africa. Countries that
ended nuclear weapons programs: Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, South
Korea, Sweden, Taiwan.

   Q: I haven't seen the list of hurricane names for 1998. What are
they?

   A: Alex, Bonnie, Charley, Danielle, Earl, Frances, Georges,
Hermine, Ivan, Jeanne, Karl, Lisa, Mitch, Nicole, Otto, Paula,
Richard, Shary, Tomas, Virginie and Walter.

   Q: How unusual is it for a student to score a perfect 1600 on
the Scholastic Assessement Test?

   A: The College Board, which administers the SAT, uses the term
``maximum score'' as opposed to ``perfect,'' because it's possible
to make an error or two and still score 1600, said spokesman Ed
Tate. In 1996-97, the most recent year for which statistics are
available, 1.8 million people took the test a total of 2.05 million
times (many people took it more than one time); 453 scored 1600.

   Q: Who in the Sam Hill was Sam Hill?

   A: If you want to accept the explanation presented by Edwin V.
Mitchell in the book Encyclopedia of American Politics (1946), the
expression can be traced to a Col. Samuel Hill of Guilford, Conn.,
who perpetually ran for office but failed to be elected. The book
says that led to the phrases ``go like Sam Hill'' or ``run like Sam
Hill.'' But since the existence of a Col. Samuel Hill can't be
documented, Sam Hill must remain a personalized euphemism first
coined by frontiersman for ``hell,'' especially when they had to
clean up their language in the presence of ladies.

   Q: Why do Atlanta Braves games always start at 10 minutes or 40
minutes after the hour, as opposed to on the hour or on the
half-hour?

   A: Credit the creativity of Ted Turner. He launched his concept
on June 29, 1981. He had a two-fold reason for beginning TBS
programming slightly off the traditional hour and half-hour
starting times, according to Tom Hughes of TBS Sports. First, it
would separate TBS from all the other stations and networks in TV
listings, ``making TBS stand out.'' And second, if people tuned
into network programming at the top of the hour or on the half-hour
and didn't like what they saw, they could surf; and when they found
TBS, they wouldn't miss the beginning of the game or program.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0048 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 10:12 ',
			header: '
A4394 &Cx1f; tad-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE     06-11 1272
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE2-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   UNDATED: Why do the Braves start their games late?

   Q: I was told that a decommissioned Navy ship, either a
battleship or aircraft carrier, was towed to sea and sunk a few
days ago. I hope it wasn't the legendary battleship Missouri. I
couldn't take the strain. Do you know what vessel it was?

   A: Stay calm. This is the way rumors get started. What actually
happened is that the battleship Missouri has been towed from
Bremerton, Wash., to Oregon. It will stay for several weeks in the
Columbia River so fresh water can cleanse the hull, said John
Reilly of the Navy Historical Center in Washington. Then it will be
towed to Hawaii, where it will be moored temporarily in Pearl
Harbor at Ford Island's Pier F-5 south of the USS Arizona Memorial.
The timetable for the move to Hawaii isn't known, but Reilly said
he thought it would arrive in the islands in the next month or two.
Later, the Missouri is expected to be moored permanently near the
old USS California at the seaward end of Battleship Row alongside
Ford Island.

   World War II, which began for the United States on Dec. 7, 1941,
with Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor, ended on the Missouri when
Japan signed the ``Instrument of Surrender'' on its decks Sept. 2,
1945.

   Q: Jacob Stein, one of Monica Lewinsky's new attorneys, was
described in news reports as a ``natty dresser'' who wears
spectators. What are spectators? My dictionary has no definition
related to clothing.

   A: They're shoes, either oxfords (for men) or pumps (for women).
Spectators are two-tone leather, usually black or brown on white,
with the darker trim on the toe, quarter and top band often
perforated. Women's versions often have a stacked leather heel.They
were popular in the 1920s, '30s and '40s, and got the name because
spectators at sporting events often wore them. Their design also
was used for golf shoes. They were revived as sporty dress shoes in
the '70s, then dropped out of fashion, but now are back in again.

   Q: What's the record speed for a train? The one that just
derailed and crashed in Germany was said to be going about 125
miles an hour.

   A: The world record was set in May 1990 by a test train of
France's TGV: 322 mph. A German test train reached 254 mph in May
1989. An experimental version of Japan's so-called ``bullet'' train
hit 252 mph in December 1993. All the trains normally travel below
these speeds in passenger service.

   Q: What is a heat index? How is it calculated, and what
information does it convey beyond a simple temperature reading in
degrees Fahrenheit or Celsius?

   A: Heat index is a number derived from actual air temperature
and relative humidity. It's the summertime equivalent of winter's
wind chill, which is the relative discomfort resulting from
combinations of wind and temperature.

   The heat index isn't arrived at by a simple mathematical
formula, such as adding percentages of the two. For example, if the
temperature is 80 and the relative humidity is 80, the heat index
is 86, meaning that's how hot it feels, or an ``apparent''
temperature. If the temperature is 90 and the humidity is 90, the
heat index would be 122: it feels like the apparent temperature is
122, even when the thermometer shows 90.

   Q: What is the Mississippi Attorney General's Office Public
Integrity Division? A photograph showed an officer wearing a shirt
with that inscription as he was escorting Samuel Bowers, who was
arrested in Hattiesburg, in connection with the 1966 slaying of
Mississippi civil rights leader Vernon Dahmer.

   A: The man wearing the shirt was Bill East, chief investigator
for Mississippi's Public Integrity Division. Lee Martin, director
of the agency, said it handles three types of investigations:
public corruption involving elected officials; white-collar crime;
and drug offenses.

   Mississippi is divided into 22 judicial districts, each with a
DA responsible for felony offenses in that district, Martin said.
When any of those DAs request assistance, because they often don't
have the resources to investigate and prosecute a case, the Public
Integrity Division assists. Having both investigative and
prosecutorial resources allowed the division to arrest Bowers and
go forward with the case, Martin said. His division consists of 10
investigators, including East, and three prosecutors.

   Q: A recent article mentioned that the U.S. has five
territories. Will you name them?

   A: The territories are American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands
and various Pacific islands. Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana
Islands once were U.S. territories, but now are commonwealths. The
United States actually has 14 ``dependent areas,'' according to the
World Factbook, which include all these and some other Pacific
islands and atolls.

   Q: A commentator said the family of Barry Goldwater might have
his ashes scattered in the Grand Canyon, but the Navajos were
objecting. Why would they care?

   A: A point in Navajo philosophy explains the objection to the
scattering of anyone's ashes in the canyon. According to tribal
belief, when a person dies, the corpse enters the realm of an evil
world and has the power to haunt the living and inflict physical
and mental pain on them. Although Arizona state Sen. James
Henderson said the Navajo Nation opposed any plan to scatter
Goldwater's ashes in the canyon, a Navajo spokesman, George Joe,
later disputed him, saying the tribe had taken no position.

   Q: Do you know how that poem goes about the days of the week on
which a child is born, such as ``Monday's child is full of grace''
and so on? I don't know the rest of it.

   A: Monday's Child is fair of face,/ Tuesday's Child is full of
grace,/ Wednesday's Child is full of woe, / Thursday's Child has
far to go,/ Friday's Child is loving and giving,/ Saturday's Child
works hard for a living,/ But the Child that is born on the Sabbath
Day,/ Is bonny, and blithe, and good, and gay!

   Q: Years ago, I heard that Shirley MacLaine was the only female
member of the so-called ``Rat Pack,'' but in all the articles after
Frank Sinatra's death, I saw no reference to that. Am I just
dreaming?

   A: She ran with the Pack at times, but most observers didn't
consider her in the same league as the group's main members:
Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Joey Bishop and Peter
Lawford. She wasn't, for example, a major part of the cast of
``Oceans Eleven,'' the 1960 movie with the other five that cemented
the Pack as a fixture in the public's mind. And an article in
Esquire after Martin died in late 1995 referred to MacLaine only as
``the Rat Pack's favorite arm piece'' and its ``distaff mascot.''
Still, since no other woman was identified more closely with the
group than MacLaine, she could be considered a member, if only as a
lesser player.

   Q: Who came up with the name Rat Pack, that show biz gang led by
the late Frank Sinatra?

   A: The term was coined by Lauren Bacall, according to a recent
Newsweek article about Sinatra's life and death, and originally was
applied to her husband Humphrey Bogart's drinking circle: David
Niven, Judy Garland, Irving ``Swifty'' Lazar (an agent),
restaurateur Mike Romanoff and Sinatra, a ``junior inductee.''
After Bogart died in 1957, Sinatra co-opted the term and began
applying it to his cronies, including Dean Martin, Joey Bishop,
Sammy Davis Jr. and Peter Lawford.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Q &AMP; A ON THE NEWS
 &HT;    By Colin Bessonette
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   UNDATED: Why do the Braves start their games late?

   Q: I was told that a decommissioned Navy ship, either a
battleship or aircraft carrier, was towed to sea and sunk a few
days ago. I hope it wasn't the legendary battleship Missouri. I
couldn't take the strain. Do you know what vessel it was?

   A: Stay calm. This is the way rumors get started. What actually
happened is that the battleship Missouri has been towed from
Bremerton, Wash., to Oregon. It will stay for several weeks in the
Columbia River so fresh water can cleanse the hull, said John
Reilly of the Navy Historical Center in Washington. Then it will be
towed to Hawaii, where it will be moored temporarily in Pearl
Harbor at Ford Island's Pier F-5 south of the USS Arizona Memorial.
The timetable for the move to Hawaii isn't known, but Reilly said
he thought it would arrive in the islands in the next month or two.
Later, the Missouri is expected to be moored permanently near the
old USS California at the seaward end of Battleship Row alongside
Ford Island.

   World War II, which began for the United States on Dec. 7, 1941,
with Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor, ended on the Missouri when
Japan signed the ``Instrument of Surrender'' on its decks Sept. 2,
1945.

   Q: Jacob Stein, one of Monica Lewinsky's new attorneys, was
described in news reports as a ``natty dresser'' who wears
spectators. What are spectators? My dictionary has no definition
related to clothing.

   A: They're shoes, either oxfords (for men) or pumps (for women).
Spectators are two-tone leather, usually black or brown on white,
with the darker trim on the toe, quarter and top band often
perforated. Women's versions often have a stacked leather heel.They
were popular in the 1920s, '30s and '40s, and got the name because
spectators at sporting events often wore them. Their design also
was used for golf shoes. They were revived as sporty dress shoes in
the '70s, then dropped out of fashion, but now are back in again.

   Q: What's the record speed for a train? The one that just
derailed and crashed in Germany was said to be going about 125
miles an hour.

   A: The world record was set in May 1990 by a test train of
France's TGV: 322 mph. A German test train reached 254 mph in May
1989. An experimental version of Japan's so-called ``bullet'' train
hit 252 mph in December 1993. All the trains normally travel below
these speeds in passenger service.

   Q: What is a heat index? How is it calculated, and what
information does it convey beyond a simple temperature reading in
degrees Fahrenheit or Celsius?

   A: Heat index is a number derived from actual air temperature
and relative humidity. It's the summertime equivalent of winter's
wind chill, which is the relative discomfort resulting from
combinations of wind and temperature.

   The heat index isn't arrived at by a simple mathematical
formula, such as adding percentages of the two. For example, if the
temperature is 80 and the relative humidity is 80, the heat index
is 86, meaning that's how hot it feels, or an ``apparent''
temperature. If the temperature is 90 and the humidity is 90, the
heat index would be 122: it feels like the apparent temperature is
122, even when the thermometer shows 90.

   Q: What is the Mississippi Attorney General's Office Public
Integrity Division? A photograph showed an officer wearing a shirt
with that inscription as he was escorting Samuel Bowers, who was
arrested in Hattiesburg, in connection with the 1966 slaying of
Mississippi civil rights leader Vernon Dahmer.

   A: The man wearing the shirt was Bill East, chief investigator
for Mississippi's Public Integrity Division. Lee Martin, director
of the agency, said it handles three types of investigations:
public corruption involving elected officials; white-collar crime;
and drug offenses.

   Mississippi is divided into 22 judicial districts, each with a
DA responsible for felony offenses in that district, Martin said.
When any of those DAs request assistance, because they often don't
have the resources to investigate and prosecute a case, the Public
Integrity Division assists. Having both investigative and
prosecutorial resources allowed the division to arrest Bowers and
go forward with the case, Martin said. His division consists of 10
investigators, including East, and three prosecutors.

   Q: A recent article mentioned that the U.S. has five
territories. Will you name them?

   A: The territories are American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands
and various Pacific islands. Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana
Islands once were U.S. territories, but now are commonwealths. The
United States actually has 14 ``dependent areas,'' according to the
World Factbook, which include all these and some other Pacific
islands and atolls.

   Q: A commentator said the family of Barry Goldwater might have
his ashes scattered in the Grand Canyon, but the Navajos were
objecting. Why would they care?

   A: A point in Navajo philosophy explains the objection to the
scattering of anyone's ashes in the canyon. According to tribal
belief, when a person dies, the corpse enters the realm of an evil
world and has the power to haunt the living and inflict physical
and mental pain on them. Although Arizona state Sen. James
Henderson said the Navajo Nation opposed any plan to scatter
Goldwater's ashes in the canyon, a Navajo spokesman, George Joe,
later disputed him, saying the tribe had taken no position.

   Q: Do you know how that poem goes about the days of the week on
which a child is born, such as ``Monday's child is full of grace''
and so on? I don't know the rest of it.

   A: Monday's Child is fair of face,/ Tuesday's Child is full of
grace,/ Wednesday's Child is full of woe, / Thursday's Child has
far to go,/ Friday's Child is loving and giving,/ Saturday's Child
works hard for a living,/ But the Child that is born on the Sabbath
Day,/ Is bonny, and blithe, and good, and gay!

   Q: Years ago, I heard that Shirley MacLaine was the only female
member of the so-called ``Rat Pack,'' but in all the articles after
Frank Sinatra's death, I saw no reference to that. Am I just
dreaming?

   A: She ran with the Pack at times, but most observers didn't
consider her in the same league as the group's main members:
Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Joey Bishop and Peter
Lawford. She wasn't, for example, a major part of the cast of
``Oceans Eleven,'' the 1960 movie with the other five that cemented
the Pack as a fixture in the public's mind. And an article in
Esquire after Martin died in late 1995 referred to MacLaine only as
``the Rat Pack's favorite arm piece'' and its ``distaff mascot.''
Still, since no other woman was identified more closely with the
group than MacLaine, she could be considered a member, if only as a
lesser player.

   Q: Who came up with the name Rat Pack, that show biz gang led by
the late Frank Sinatra?

   A: The term was coined by Lauren Bacall, according to a recent
Newsweek article about Sinatra's life and death, and originally was
applied to her husband Humphrey Bogart's drinking circle: David
Niven, Judy Garland, Irving ``Swifty'' Lazar (an agent),
restaurateur Mike Romanoff and Sinatra, a ``junior inductee.''
After Bogart died in 1957, Sinatra co-opted the term and began
applying it to his cronies, including Dean Martin, Joey Bishop,
Sammy Davis Jr. and Peter Lawford.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0049 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 10:12 ',
			header: '
A4396 &Cx1f; tad-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE     06-11 1272
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE2-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   UNDATED: Why do the Braves start their games late?

   Q: I was told that a decommissioned Navy ship, either a
battleship or aircraft carrier, was towed to sea and sunk a few
days ago. I hope it wasn't the legendary battleship Missouri. I
couldn't take the strain. Do you know what vessel it was?

   A: Stay calm. This is the way rumors get started. What actually
happened is that the battleship Missouri has been towed from
Bremerton, Wash., to Oregon. It will stay for several weeks in the
Columbia River so fresh water can cleanse the hull, said John
Reilly of the Navy Historical Center in Washington. Then it will be
towed to Hawaii, where it will be moored temporarily in Pearl
Harbor at Ford Island's Pier F-5 south of the USS Arizona Memorial.
The timetable for the move to Hawaii isn't known, but Reilly said
he thought it would arrive in the islands in the next month or two.
Later, the Missouri is expected to be moored permanently near the
old USS California at the seaward end of Battleship Row alongside
Ford Island.

   World War II, which began for the United States on Dec. 7, 1941,
with Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor, ended on the Missouri when
Japan signed the ``Instrument of Surrender'' on its decks Sept. 2,
1945.

   Q: Jacob Stein, one of Monica Lewinsky's new attorneys, was
described in news reports as a ``natty dresser'' who wears
spectators. What are spectators? My dictionary has no definition
related to clothing.

   A: They're shoes, either oxfords (for men) or pumps (for women).
Spectators are two-tone leather, usually black or brown on white,
with the darker trim on the toe, quarter and top band often
perforated. Women's versions often have a stacked leather heel.They
were popular in the 1920s, '30s and '40s, and got the name because
spectators at sporting events often wore them. Their design also
was used for golf shoes. They were revived as sporty dress shoes in
the '70s, then dropped out of fashion, but now are back in again.

   Q: What's the record speed for a train? The one that just
derailed and crashed in Germany was said to be going about 125
miles an hour.

   A: The world record was set in May 1990 by a test train of
France's TGV: 322 mph. A German test train reached 254 mph in May
1989. An experimental version of Japan's so-called ``bullet'' train
hit 252 mph in December 1993. All the trains normally travel below
these speeds in passenger service.

   Q: What is a heat index? How is it calculated, and what
information does it convey beyond a simple temperature reading in
degrees Fahrenheit or Celsius?

   A: Heat index is a number derived from actual air temperature
and relative humidity. It's the summertime equivalent of winter's
wind chill, which is the relative discomfort resulting from
combinations of wind and temperature.

   The heat index isn't arrived at by a simple mathematical
formula, such as adding percentages of the two. For example, if the
temperature is 80 and the relative humidity is 80, the heat index
is 86, meaning that's how hot it feels, or an ``apparent''
temperature. If the temperature is 90 and the humidity is 90, the
heat index would be 122: it feels like the apparent temperature is
122, even when the thermometer shows 90.

   Q: What is the Mississippi Attorney General's Office Public
Integrity Division? A photograph showed an officer wearing a shirt
with that inscription as he was escorting Samuel Bowers, who was
arrested in Hattiesburg, in connection with the 1966 slaying of
Mississippi civil rights leader Vernon Dahmer.

   A: The man wearing the shirt was Bill East, chief investigator
for Mississippi's Public Integrity Division. Lee Martin, director
of the agency, said it handles three types of investigations:
public corruption involving elected officials; white-collar crime;
and drug offenses.

   Mississippi is divided into 22 judicial districts, each with a
DA responsible for felony offenses in that district, Martin said.
When any of those DAs request assistance, because they often don't
have the resources to investigate and prosecute a case, the Public
Integrity Division assists. Having both investigative and
prosecutorial resources allowed the division to arrest Bowers and
go forward with the case, Martin said. His division consists of 10
investigators, including East, and three prosecutors.

   Q: A recent article mentioned that the U.S. has five
territories. Will you name them?

   A: The territories are American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands
and various Pacific islands. Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana
Islands once were U.S. territories, but now are commonwealths. The
United States actually has 14 ``dependent areas,'' according to the
World Factbook, which include all these and some other Pacific
islands and atolls.

   Q: A commentator said the family of Barry Goldwater might have
his ashes scattered in the Grand Canyon, but the Navajos were
objecting. Why would they care?

   A: A point in Navajo philosophy explains the objection to the
scattering of anyone's ashes in the canyon. According to tribal
belief, when a person dies, the corpse enters the realm of an evil
world and has the power to haunt the living and inflict physical
and mental pain on them. Although Arizona state Sen. James
Henderson said the Navajo Nation opposed any plan to scatter
Goldwater's ashes in the canyon, a Navajo spokesman, George Joe,
later disputed him, saying the tribe had taken no position.

   Q: Do you know how that poem goes about the days of the week on
which a child is born, such as ``Monday's child is full of grace''
and so on? I don't know the rest of it.

   A: Monday's Child is fair of face,/ Tuesday's Child is full of
grace,/ Wednesday's Child is full of woe, / Thursday's Child has
far to go,/ Friday's Child is loving and giving,/ Saturday's Child
works hard for a living,/ But the Child that is born on the Sabbath
Day,/ Is bonny, and blithe, and good, and gay!

   Q: Years ago, I heard that Shirley MacLaine was the only female
member of the so-called ``Rat Pack,'' but in all the articles after
Frank Sinatra's death, I saw no reference to that. Am I just
dreaming?

   A: She ran with the Pack at times, but most observers didn't
consider her in the same league as the group's main members:
Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Joey Bishop and Peter
Lawford. She wasn't, for example, a major part of the cast of
``Oceans Eleven,'' the 1960 movie with the other five that cemented
the Pack as a fixture in the public's mind. And an article in
Esquire after Martin died in late 1995 referred to MacLaine only as
``the Rat Pack's favorite arm piece'' and its ``distaff mascot.''
Still, since no other woman was identified more closely with the
group than MacLaine, she could be considered a member, if only as a
lesser player.

   Q: Who came up with the name Rat Pack, that show biz gang led by
the late Frank Sinatra?

   A: The term was coined by Lauren Bacall, according to a recent
Newsweek article about Sinatra's life and death, and originally was
applied to her husband Humphrey Bogart's drinking circle: David
Niven, Judy Garland, Irving ``Swifty'' Lazar (an agent),
restaurateur Mike Romanoff and Sinatra, a ``junior inductee.''
After Bogart died in 1957, Sinatra co-opted the term and began
applying it to his cronies, including Dean Martin, Joey Bishop,
Sammy Davis Jr. and Peter Lawford.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Q &AMP; A ON THE NEWS
 &HT;    By Colin Bessonette
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   UNDATED: Why do the Braves start their games late?

   Q: I was told that a decommissioned Navy ship, either a
battleship or aircraft carrier, was towed to sea and sunk a few
days ago. I hope it wasn't the legendary battleship Missouri. I
couldn't take the strain. Do you know what vessel it was?

   A: Stay calm. This is the way rumors get started. What actually
happened is that the battleship Missouri has been towed from
Bremerton, Wash., to Oregon. It will stay for several weeks in the
Columbia River so fresh water can cleanse the hull, said John
Reilly of the Navy Historical Center in Washington. Then it will be
towed to Hawaii, where it will be moored temporarily in Pearl
Harbor at Ford Island's Pier F-5 south of the USS Arizona Memorial.
The timetable for the move to Hawaii isn't known, but Reilly said
he thought it would arrive in the islands in the next month or two.
Later, the Missouri is expected to be moored permanently near the
old USS California at the seaward end of Battleship Row alongside
Ford Island.

   World War II, which began for the United States on Dec. 7, 1941,
with Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor, ended on the Missouri when
Japan signed the ``Instrument of Surrender'' on its decks Sept. 2,
1945.

   Q: Jacob Stein, one of Monica Lewinsky's new attorneys, was
described in news reports as a ``natty dresser'' who wears
spectators. What are spectators? My dictionary has no definition
related to clothing.

   A: They're shoes, either oxfords (for men) or pumps (for women).
Spectators are two-tone leather, usually black or brown on white,
with the darker trim on the toe, quarter and top band often
perforated. Women's versions often have a stacked leather heel.They
were popular in the 1920s, '30s and '40s, and got the name because
spectators at sporting events often wore them. Their design also
was used for golf shoes. They were revived as sporty dress shoes in
the '70s, then dropped out of fashion, but now are back in again.

   Q: What's the record speed for a train? The one that just
derailed and crashed in Germany was said to be going about 125
miles an hour.

   A: The world record was set in May 1990 by a test train of
France's TGV: 322 mph. A German test train reached 254 mph in May
1989. An experimental version of Japan's so-called ``bullet'' train
hit 252 mph in December 1993. All the trains normally travel below
these speeds in passenger service.

   Q: What is a heat index? How is it calculated, and what
information does it convey beyond a simple temperature reading in
degrees Fahrenheit or Celsius?

   A: Heat index is a number derived from actual air temperature
and relative humidity. It's the summertime equivalent of winter's
wind chill, which is the relative discomfort resulting from
combinations of wind and temperature.

   The heat index isn't arrived at by a simple mathematical
formula, such as adding percentages of the two. For example, if the
temperature is 80 and the relative humidity is 80, the heat index
is 86, meaning that's how hot it feels, or an ``apparent''
temperature. If the temperature is 90 and the humidity is 90, the
heat index would be 122: it feels like the apparent temperature is
122, even when the thermometer shows 90.

   Q: What is the Mississippi Attorney General's Office Public
Integrity Division? A photograph showed an officer wearing a shirt
with that inscription as he was escorting Samuel Bowers, who was
arrested in Hattiesburg, in connection with the 1966 slaying of
Mississippi civil rights leader Vernon Dahmer.

   A: The man wearing the shirt was Bill East, chief investigator
for Mississippi's Public Integrity Division. Lee Martin, director
of the agency, said it handles three types of investigations:
public corruption involving elected officials; white-collar crime;
and drug offenses.

   Mississippi is divided into 22 judicial districts, each with a
DA responsible for felony offenses in that district, Martin said.
When any of those DAs request assistance, because they often don't
have the resources to investigate and prosecute a case, the Public
Integrity Division assists. Having both investigative and
prosecutorial resources allowed the division to arrest Bowers and
go forward with the case, Martin said. His division consists of 10
investigators, including East, and three prosecutors.

   Q: A recent article mentioned that the U.S. has five
territories. Will you name them?

   A: The territories are American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands
and various Pacific islands. Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana
Islands once were U.S. territories, but now are commonwealths. The
United States actually has 14 ``dependent areas,'' according to the
World Factbook, which include all these and some other Pacific
islands and atolls.

   Q: A commentator said the family of Barry Goldwater might have
his ashes scattered in the Grand Canyon, but the Navajos were
objecting. Why would they care?

   A: A point in Navajo philosophy explains the objection to the
scattering of anyone's ashes in the canyon. According to tribal
belief, when a person dies, the corpse enters the realm of an evil
world and has the power to haunt the living and inflict physical
and mental pain on them. Although Arizona state Sen. James
Henderson said the Navajo Nation opposed any plan to scatter
Goldwater's ashes in the canyon, a Navajo spokesman, George Joe,
later disputed him, saying the tribe had taken no position.

   Q: Do you know how that poem goes about the days of the week on
which a child is born, such as ``Monday's child is full of grace''
and so on? I don't know the rest of it.

   A: Monday's Child is fair of face,/ Tuesday's Child is full of
grace,/ Wednesday's Child is full of woe, / Thursday's Child has
far to go,/ Friday's Child is loving and giving,/ Saturday's Child
works hard for a living,/ But the Child that is born on the Sabbath
Day,/ Is bonny, and blithe, and good, and gay!

   Q: Years ago, I heard that Shirley MacLaine was the only female
member of the so-called ``Rat Pack,'' but in all the articles after
Frank Sinatra's death, I saw no reference to that. Am I just
dreaming?

   A: She ran with the Pack at times, but most observers didn't
consider her in the same league as the group's main members:
Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Joey Bishop and Peter
Lawford. She wasn't, for example, a major part of the cast of
``Oceans Eleven,'' the 1960 movie with the other five that cemented
the Pack as a fixture in the public's mind. And an article in
Esquire after Martin died in late 1995 referred to MacLaine only as
``the Rat Pack's favorite arm piece'' and its ``distaff mascot.''
Still, since no other woman was identified more closely with the
group than MacLaine, she could be considered a member, if only as a
lesser player.

   Q: Who came up with the name Rat Pack, that show biz gang led by
the late Frank Sinatra?

   A: The term was coined by Lauren Bacall, according to a recent
Newsweek article about Sinatra's life and death, and originally was
applied to her husband Humphrey Bogart's drinking circle: David
Niven, Judy Garland, Irving ``Swifty'' Lazar (an agent),
restaurateur Mike Romanoff and Sinatra, a ``junior inductee.''
After Bogart died in 1957, Sinatra co-opted the term and began
applying it to his cronies, including Dean Martin, Joey Bishop,
Sammy Davis Jr. and Peter Lawford.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0050 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 10:12 ',
			header: '
A4397 &Cx1f; tad-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE     06-11 0481
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE3-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   UNDATED: Who came up with the name Rat Pack?

   Q: Who are the Major League baseball players who have hit four
home runs in one game, and what were the dates?

   A: National League: Bobby Lowe, Boston Braves (known as
Beaneaters), May 30, 1894; Ed Delahanty, Philadelphia Phillies,
July 13, 1896; Chuck Klein, Phillies, July 10, 1936; Gil Hodges,
Brooklyn Dodgers, Aug. 31, 1950; Joe Adcock, Milwaukee Braves, July
31, 1954; Willie Mays, San Francisco Giants, April 30, 1961; Mike
Schmidt, Phillies, April 17, 1976; Bob Horner, Atlanta Braves, July
6, 1986; Mark Whiten, St. Louis Cardinals, Sept. 7, 1993.

   American League: Lou Gehrig, New York Yankees, June 3, 1932; Pat
Seerey, Chicago White Sox, July 18, 1949; Rocky Colavito, Cleveland
Indians, June 10, 1959.

   Klein, Schmidt and Seerey accomplished the feat in extra-inning
games.

   Q: Of those batters who have four homers in a single game,
didn't some do it in consecutive times at bat?

   A: Yes: Bobby Lowe, Lou Gehrig, Rocky Colavito and Mike Schmidt
accomplished this amazing feat.

   Q: It was reported that a teenage girl in Salt Lake City was
beaten because she refused to be the 15th wife of her father's
brother. Is polygamy still legal in Utah?

   A: No. It's against the law in Utah, but law enforcement
officials rarely investigate or prosecute those who practice it.
John Daniel Kingston, 43-year-old father of the 16-year-old girl
involved, is the patriarch of a large and well-known polygamist
clan in Utah. He turned himself in to sheriff's detectives after
the girl called police to report the beating. The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), by the way, which is
headquartered in Salt Lake City, ceased acceptance of multiple
marriages in 1890, after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled it illegal.
But some splinter groups continue the practice.

   Q: I read this statement in a book: ``There are twelve stores
and business houses, a bank, good hotel, Masonic Lodge, three
churches, no bar rooms and no blind tiger.'' What are blind tigers?

   A: The term comes from the Prohibition-era custom of
establishments displaying stuffed tigers to alert patrons to
speakeasies or the availability of alcohol.

   Q: What's the difference between smog and haze?

   A: Both reduce visibility, but they aren't caused by the same
thing. Smog is air pollution consisting of smoke and fog. Haze is
fine dust or salt particles _ so small that they can't be felt, or
seen with the naked eye _ in the atmosphere. The particles diminish
horizontal visibility and give the atmosphere a characteristic
opalescent appearance that subdues all colors.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Q &AMP; A ON THE NEWS
 &HT;    By Colin Bessonette
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   UNDATED: Who came up with the name Rat Pack?

   Q: Who are the Major League baseball players who have hit four
home runs in one game, and what were the dates?

   A: National League: Bobby Lowe, Boston Braves (known as
Beaneaters), May 30, 1894; Ed Delahanty, Philadelphia Phillies,
July 13, 1896; Chuck Klein, Phillies, July 10, 1936; Gil Hodges,
Brooklyn Dodgers, Aug. 31, 1950; Joe Adcock, Milwaukee Braves, July
31, 1954; Willie Mays, San Francisco Giants, April 30, 1961; Mike
Schmidt, Phillies, April 17, 1976; Bob Horner, Atlanta Braves, July
6, 1986; Mark Whiten, St. Louis Cardinals, Sept. 7, 1993.

   American League: Lou Gehrig, New York Yankees, June 3, 1932; Pat
Seerey, Chicago White Sox, July 18, 1949; Rocky Colavito, Cleveland
Indians, June 10, 1959.

   Klein, Schmidt and Seerey accomplished the feat in extra-inning
games.

   Q: Of those batters who have four homers in a single game,
didn't some do it in consecutive times at bat?

   A: Yes: Bobby Lowe, Lou Gehrig, Rocky Colavito and Mike Schmidt
accomplished this amazing feat.

   Q: It was reported that a teenage girl in Salt Lake City was
beaten because she refused to be the 15th wife of her father's
brother. Is polygamy still legal in Utah?

   A: No. It's against the law in Utah, but law enforcement
officials rarely investigate or prosecute those who practice it.
John Daniel Kingston, 43-year-old father of the 16-year-old girl
involved, is the patriarch of a large and well-known polygamist
clan in Utah. He turned himself in to sheriff's detectives after
the girl called police to report the beating. The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), by the way, which is
headquartered in Salt Lake City, ceased acceptance of multiple
marriages in 1890, after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled it illegal.
But some splinter groups continue the practice.

   Q: I read this statement in a book: ``There are twelve stores
and business houses, a bank, good hotel, Masonic Lodge, three
churches, no bar rooms and no blind tiger.'' What are blind tigers?

   A: The term comes from the Prohibition-era custom of
establishments displaying stuffed tigers to alert patrons to
speakeasies or the availability of alcohol.

   Q: What's the difference between smog and haze?

   A: Both reduce visibility, but they aren't caused by the same
thing. Smog is air pollution consisting of smoke and fog. Haze is
fine dust or salt particles _ so small that they can't be felt, or
seen with the naked eye _ in the atmosphere. The particles diminish
horizontal visibility and give the atmosphere a characteristic
opalescent appearance that subdues all colors.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0051 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 10:12 ',
			header: '
A4398 &Cx1f; tad-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE     06-11 0481
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE3-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   UNDATED: Who came up with the name Rat Pack?

   Q: Who are the Major League baseball players who have hit four
home runs in one game, and what were the dates?

   A: National League: Bobby Lowe, Boston Braves (known as
Beaneaters), May 30, 1894; Ed Delahanty, Philadelphia Phillies,
July 13, 1896; Chuck Klein, Phillies, July 10, 1936; Gil Hodges,
Brooklyn Dodgers, Aug. 31, 1950; Joe Adcock, Milwaukee Braves, July
31, 1954; Willie Mays, San Francisco Giants, April 30, 1961; Mike
Schmidt, Phillies, April 17, 1976; Bob Horner, Atlanta Braves, July
6, 1986; Mark Whiten, St. Louis Cardinals, Sept. 7, 1993.

   American League: Lou Gehrig, New York Yankees, June 3, 1932; Pat
Seerey, Chicago White Sox, July 18, 1949; Rocky Colavito, Cleveland
Indians, June 10, 1959.

   Klein, Schmidt and Seerey accomplished the feat in extra-inning
games.

   Q: Of those batters who have four homers in a single game,
didn't some do it in consecutive times at bat?

   A: Yes: Bobby Lowe, Lou Gehrig, Rocky Colavito and Mike Schmidt
accomplished this amazing feat.

   Q: It was reported that a teenage girl in Salt Lake City was
beaten because she refused to be the 15th wife of her father's
brother. Is polygamy still legal in Utah?

   A: No. It's against the law in Utah, but law enforcement
officials rarely investigate or prosecute those who practice it.
John Daniel Kingston, 43-year-old father of the 16-year-old girl
involved, is the patriarch of a large and well-known polygamist
clan in Utah. He turned himself in to sheriff's detectives after
the girl called police to report the beating. The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), by the way, which is
headquartered in Salt Lake City, ceased acceptance of multiple
marriages in 1890, after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled it illegal.
But some splinter groups continue the practice.

   Q: I read this statement in a book: ``There are twelve stores
and business houses, a bank, good hotel, Masonic Lodge, three
churches, no bar rooms and no blind tiger.'' What are blind tigers?

   A: The term comes from the Prohibition-era custom of
establishments displaying stuffed tigers to alert patrons to
speakeasies or the availability of alcohol.

   Q: What's the difference between smog and haze?

   A: Both reduce visibility, but they aren't caused by the same
thing. Smog is air pollution consisting of smoke and fog. Haze is
fine dust or salt particles _ so small that they can't be felt, or
seen with the naked eye _ in the atmosphere. The particles diminish
horizontal visibility and give the atmosphere a characteristic
opalescent appearance that subdues all colors.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Q &AMP; A ON THE NEWS
 &HT;    By Colin Bessonette
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   UNDATED: Who came up with the name Rat Pack?

   Q: Who are the Major League baseball players who have hit four
home runs in one game, and what were the dates?

   A: National League: Bobby Lowe, Boston Braves (known as
Beaneaters), May 30, 1894; Ed Delahanty, Philadelphia Phillies,
July 13, 1896; Chuck Klein, Phillies, July 10, 1936; Gil Hodges,
Brooklyn Dodgers, Aug. 31, 1950; Joe Adcock, Milwaukee Braves, July
31, 1954; Willie Mays, San Francisco Giants, April 30, 1961; Mike
Schmidt, Phillies, April 17, 1976; Bob Horner, Atlanta Braves, July
6, 1986; Mark Whiten, St. Louis Cardinals, Sept. 7, 1993.

   American League: Lou Gehrig, New York Yankees, June 3, 1932; Pat
Seerey, Chicago White Sox, July 18, 1949; Rocky Colavito, Cleveland
Indians, June 10, 1959.

   Klein, Schmidt and Seerey accomplished the feat in extra-inning
games.

   Q: Of those batters who have four homers in a single game,
didn't some do it in consecutive times at bat?

   A: Yes: Bobby Lowe, Lou Gehrig, Rocky Colavito and Mike Schmidt
accomplished this amazing feat.

   Q: It was reported that a teenage girl in Salt Lake City was
beaten because she refused to be the 15th wife of her father's
brother. Is polygamy still legal in Utah?

   A: No. It's against the law in Utah, but law enforcement
officials rarely investigate or prosecute those who practice it.
John Daniel Kingston, 43-year-old father of the 16-year-old girl
involved, is the patriarch of a large and well-known polygamist
clan in Utah. He turned himself in to sheriff's detectives after
the girl called police to report the beating. The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), by the way, which is
headquartered in Salt Lake City, ceased acceptance of multiple
marriages in 1890, after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled it illegal.
But some splinter groups continue the practice.

   Q: I read this statement in a book: ``There are twelve stores
and business houses, a bank, good hotel, Masonic Lodge, three
churches, no bar rooms and no blind tiger.'' What are blind tigers?

   A: The term comes from the Prohibition-era custom of
establishments displaying stuffed tigers to alert patrons to
speakeasies or the availability of alcohol.

   Q: What's the difference between smog and haze?

   A: Both reduce visibility, but they aren't caused by the same
thing. Smog is air pollution consisting of smoke and fog. Haze is
fine dust or salt particles _ so small that they can't be felt, or
seen with the naked eye _ in the atmosphere. The particles diminish
horizontal visibility and give the atmosphere a characteristic
opalescent appearance that subdues all colors.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0052 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 10:12 ',
			header: '
A4399 &Cx1f; tad-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE     06-11 0782
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE4-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   UNDATED: What's the difference between smog and haze?

   Q: Rosa Parks, the civil rights activist, was back in the news
when she was hospitalized after a fall. In all the articles I've
read over the years about her refusal to give up her seat on a bus
for a white man, I've never seen his name. Was it ever made public?

   A: No particular passenger was identified after Parks refused to
give up her seat in Montgomery, Ala., on Dec. 1, 1955, when white
passengers boarded the bus. The name of the driver, however, was
recorded, and it was he, more than any single passenger, who
sparked the incident. When driver James F. Blake asked Parks and
three other black passengers to vacate a row of seats, conforming
to the practice of the time in Montgomery, she recognized him as
the same driver who, in 1943, had evicted her from his bus for
boarding through the front door. So, when he confronted Parks again
12 years later, she remembered him. The latter incident, of course,
triggered a boycott of the bus system and, ultimately, played a
major role in the nation's civil rights movement.

   Q: Is it possible that India's and Pakistan's nuclear testing
somehow triggered the deadly earthquake in Afghanistan, perhaps by
destabilizing a fault line?

   A: ``There's no relationship whatsoever,'' said Waverly Person
of the U.S. Geological Survey in Golden, Colo. The latest
earthquake in Afghanistan is hundreds of miles from the nuclear
testing sites. India's underground explosions were at a range near
Pokaran, 330 miles southwest of New Delhi. Pakistan's underground
blasts were in the Chagai region of the southwestern Baluchistan
province. The area where the latest Afghanistan quake occurred is
in a remote, mountainous area 45 miles west of Faisabad, capital of
Badakhshan province, near the border with Tajikstan.

   As Person pointed out, the area is prone to destructive quakes,
such as one that occurred there in February, killing 2,300 people
and leaving 8,000 homeless. That was about three months before the
underground nuclear explosions set off by India, which were met in
response by Pakistan's tests.

   Q: I recently read an article about Piney Woods Country Life
School, a Mississippi boarding school for black children. The
article said it places inner-city teens in a rural and religious
setting, imposes strict discipline and offers support and advice,
with more than 95 percent of its graduates going on to college. How
can I get information about enrolling children there?

   A: Write and request an information packet or an admissions
packet: Piney Woods Country Life School, U.S. 49 South, Piney
Woods, MS 39148-9998. Spokeswoman Pamela Tolbert-Bynum reiterated
that the boarding school is primarily for African-American
youngsters in grades 7-12 ``who want to be here,'' as opposed to
those whose parents insist that they attend. Also, the school is
mandated by its charter to have at least two-thirds of its students
coming from low-income homes. Information: 601-845-2214.

   Q: The other day, a TV weatherman said it was raining, and the
humidity was 97 percent. I don't understand. Doesn't humidity have
to be 100 percent for rain to be falling?

   A: It all depends. For rain to fall, the air has to be saturated
to the point that it can't hold any more moisture. That's what
happens in the clouds where the rain forms, said meterologist Gary
Beeler of the National Weather Service. And that's where the
humidity has to be 100 percent, or very close. But that doesn't
mean it has to be 100 percent on the ground. In the West, it's not
uncommon for rain to be falling and the humidity at ground level to
be, say, 50 percent, Beeler said. In that case, the rain would
evaporate quickly. But if the rain falls heavily enough, and for a
long enough time, the humidity at ground level would rise and
likely would reach 100 percent.

   Q: House Speaker Newt Gingrich recently spoke before the
Knesset, Israel's Parliament, and he backs Israeli interests in the
United States. Is his wife still a lobbyist for Israel?

   A: No. Marianne Gingrich once worked as a marketing agent for
the Israel Export Development Co., which was developing a free
trade zone in Israel. Last year, Gingrich's office reported that
she was on indefinite leave of absence from the job. Now she's no
longer affiliated with Israel Export Development Co., nor does she
work at all, said Ginny Williams of Gingrich's district office.

   (END)

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Q &AMP; A ON THE NEWS
 &HT;    By Colin Bessonette
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   UNDATED: What's the difference between smog and haze?

   Q: Rosa Parks, the civil rights activist, was back in the news
when she was hospitalized after a fall. In all the articles I've
read over the years about her refusal to give up her seat on a bus
for a white man, I've never seen his name. Was it ever made public?

   A: No particular passenger was identified after Parks refused to
give up her seat in Montgomery, Ala., on Dec. 1, 1955, when white
passengers boarded the bus. The name of the driver, however, was
recorded, and it was he, more than any single passenger, who
sparked the incident. When driver James F. Blake asked Parks and
three other black passengers to vacate a row of seats, conforming
to the practice of the time in Montgomery, she recognized him as
the same driver who, in 1943, had evicted her from his bus for
boarding through the front door. So, when he confronted Parks again
12 years later, she remembered him. The latter incident, of course,
triggered a boycott of the bus system and, ultimately, played a
major role in the nation's civil rights movement.

   Q: Is it possible that India's and Pakistan's nuclear testing
somehow triggered the deadly earthquake in Afghanistan, perhaps by
destabilizing a fault line?

   A: ``There's no relationship whatsoever,'' said Waverly Person
of the U.S. Geological Survey in Golden, Colo. The latest
earthquake in Afghanistan is hundreds of miles from the nuclear
testing sites. India's underground explosions were at a range near
Pokaran, 330 miles southwest of New Delhi. Pakistan's underground
blasts were in the Chagai region of the southwestern Baluchistan
province. The area where the latest Afghanistan quake occurred is
in a remote, mountainous area 45 miles west of Faisabad, capital of
Badakhshan province, near the border with Tajikstan.

   As Person pointed out, the area is prone to destructive quakes,
such as one that occurred there in February, killing 2,300 people
and leaving 8,000 homeless. That was about three months before the
underground nuclear explosions set off by India, which were met in
response by Pakistan's tests.

   Q: I recently read an article about Piney Woods Country Life
School, a Mississippi boarding school for black children. The
article said it places inner-city teens in a rural and religious
setting, imposes strict discipline and offers support and advice,
with more than 95 percent of its graduates going on to college. How
can I get information about enrolling children there?

   A: Write and request an information packet or an admissions
packet: Piney Woods Country Life School, U.S. 49 South, Piney
Woods, MS 39148-9998. Spokeswoman Pamela Tolbert-Bynum reiterated
that the boarding school is primarily for African-American
youngsters in grades 7-12 ``who want to be here,'' as opposed to
those whose parents insist that they attend. Also, the school is
mandated by its charter to have at least two-thirds of its students
coming from low-income homes. Information: 601-845-2214.

   Q: The other day, a TV weatherman said it was raining, and the
humidity was 97 percent. I don't understand. Doesn't humidity have
to be 100 percent for rain to be falling?

   A: It all depends. For rain to fall, the air has to be saturated
to the point that it can't hold any more moisture. That's what
happens in the clouds where the rain forms, said meterologist Gary
Beeler of the National Weather Service. And that's where the
humidity has to be 100 percent, or very close. But that doesn't
mean it has to be 100 percent on the ground. In the West, it's not
uncommon for rain to be falling and the humidity at ground level to
be, say, 50 percent, Beeler said. In that case, the rain would
evaporate quickly. But if the rain falls heavily enough, and for a
long enough time, the humidity at ground level would rise and
likely would reach 100 percent.

   Q: House Speaker Newt Gingrich recently spoke before the
Knesset, Israel's Parliament, and he backs Israeli interests in the
United States. Is his wife still a lobbyist for Israel?

   A: No. Marianne Gingrich once worked as a marketing agent for
the Israel Export Development Co., which was developing a free
trade zone in Israel. Last year, Gingrich's office reported that
she was on indefinite leave of absence from the job. Now she's no
longer affiliated with Israel Export Development Co., nor does she
work at all, said Ginny Williams of Gingrich's district office.

   (END)

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0053 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 10:12 ',
			header: '
A4400 &Cx1f; tad-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE     06-11 0782
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE4-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   UNDATED: What's the difference between smog and haze?

   Q: Rosa Parks, the civil rights activist, was back in the news
when she was hospitalized after a fall. In all the articles I've
read over the years about her refusal to give up her seat on a bus
for a white man, I've never seen his name. Was it ever made public?

   A: No particular passenger was identified after Parks refused to
give up her seat in Montgomery, Ala., on Dec. 1, 1955, when white
passengers boarded the bus. The name of the driver, however, was
recorded, and it was he, more than any single passenger, who
sparked the incident. When driver James F. Blake asked Parks and
three other black passengers to vacate a row of seats, conforming
to the practice of the time in Montgomery, she recognized him as
the same driver who, in 1943, had evicted her from his bus for
boarding through the front door. So, when he confronted Parks again
12 years later, she remembered him. The latter incident, of course,
triggered a boycott of the bus system and, ultimately, played a
major role in the nation's civil rights movement.

   Q: Is it possible that India's and Pakistan's nuclear testing
somehow triggered the deadly earthquake in Afghanistan, perhaps by
destabilizing a fault line?

   A: ``There's no relationship whatsoever,'' said Waverly Person
of the U.S. Geological Survey in Golden, Colo. The latest
earthquake in Afghanistan is hundreds of miles from the nuclear
testing sites. India's underground explosions were at a range near
Pokaran, 330 miles southwest of New Delhi. Pakistan's underground
blasts were in the Chagai region of the southwestern Baluchistan
province. The area where the latest Afghanistan quake occurred is
in a remote, mountainous area 45 miles west of Faisabad, capital of
Badakhshan province, near the border with Tajikstan.

   As Person pointed out, the area is prone to destructive quakes,
such as one that occurred there in February, killing 2,300 people
and leaving 8,000 homeless. That was about three months before the
underground nuclear explosions set off by India, which were met in
response by Pakistan's tests.

   Q: I recently read an article about Piney Woods Country Life
School, a Mississippi boarding school for black children. The
article said it places inner-city teens in a rural and religious
setting, imposes strict discipline and offers support and advice,
with more than 95 percent of its graduates going on to college. How
can I get information about enrolling children there?

   A: Write and request an information packet or an admissions
packet: Piney Woods Country Life School, U.S. 49 South, Piney
Woods, MS 39148-9998. Spokeswoman Pamela Tolbert-Bynum reiterated
that the boarding school is primarily for African-American
youngsters in grades 7-12 ``who want to be here,'' as opposed to
those whose parents insist that they attend. Also, the school is
mandated by its charter to have at least two-thirds of its students
coming from low-income homes. Information: 601-845-2214.

   Q: The other day, a TV weatherman said it was raining, and the
humidity was 97 percent. I don't understand. Doesn't humidity have
to be 100 percent for rain to be falling?

   A: It all depends. For rain to fall, the air has to be saturated
to the point that it can't hold any more moisture. That's what
happens in the clouds where the rain forms, said meterologist Gary
Beeler of the National Weather Service. And that's where the
humidity has to be 100 percent, or very close. But that doesn't
mean it has to be 100 percent on the ground. In the West, it's not
uncommon for rain to be falling and the humidity at ground level to
be, say, 50 percent, Beeler said. In that case, the rain would
evaporate quickly. But if the rain falls heavily enough, and for a
long enough time, the humidity at ground level would rise and
likely would reach 100 percent.

   Q: House Speaker Newt Gingrich recently spoke before the
Knesset, Israel's Parliament, and he backs Israeli interests in the
United States. Is his wife still a lobbyist for Israel?

   A: No. Marianne Gingrich once worked as a marketing agent for
the Israel Export Development Co., which was developing a free
trade zone in Israel. Last year, Gingrich's office reported that
she was on indefinite leave of absence from the job. Now she's no
longer affiliated with Israel Export Development Co., nor does she
work at all, said Ginny Williams of Gingrich's district office.

   (END)

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Q &AMP; A ON THE NEWS
 &HT;    By Colin Bessonette
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   UNDATED: What's the difference between smog and haze?

   Q: Rosa Parks, the civil rights activist, was back in the news
when she was hospitalized after a fall. In all the articles I've
read over the years about her refusal to give up her seat on a bus
for a white man, I've never seen his name. Was it ever made public?

   A: No particular passenger was identified after Parks refused to
give up her seat in Montgomery, Ala., on Dec. 1, 1955, when white
passengers boarded the bus. The name of the driver, however, was
recorded, and it was he, more than any single passenger, who
sparked the incident. When driver James F. Blake asked Parks and
three other black passengers to vacate a row of seats, conforming
to the practice of the time in Montgomery, she recognized him as
the same driver who, in 1943, had evicted her from his bus for
boarding through the front door. So, when he confronted Parks again
12 years later, she remembered him. The latter incident, of course,
triggered a boycott of the bus system and, ultimately, played a
major role in the nation's civil rights movement.

   Q: Is it possible that India's and Pakistan's nuclear testing
somehow triggered the deadly earthquake in Afghanistan, perhaps by
destabilizing a fault line?

   A: ``There's no relationship whatsoever,'' said Waverly Person
of the U.S. Geological Survey in Golden, Colo. The latest
earthquake in Afghanistan is hundreds of miles from the nuclear
testing sites. India's underground explosions were at a range near
Pokaran, 330 miles southwest of New Delhi. Pakistan's underground
blasts were in the Chagai region of the southwestern Baluchistan
province. The area where the latest Afghanistan quake occurred is
in a remote, mountainous area 45 miles west of Faisabad, capital of
Badakhshan province, near the border with Tajikstan.

   As Person pointed out, the area is prone to destructive quakes,
such as one that occurred there in February, killing 2,300 people
and leaving 8,000 homeless. That was about three months before the
underground nuclear explosions set off by India, which were met in
response by Pakistan's tests.

   Q: I recently read an article about Piney Woods Country Life
School, a Mississippi boarding school for black children. The
article said it places inner-city teens in a rural and religious
setting, imposes strict discipline and offers support and advice,
with more than 95 percent of its graduates going on to college. How
can I get information about enrolling children there?

   A: Write and request an information packet or an admissions
packet: Piney Woods Country Life School, U.S. 49 South, Piney
Woods, MS 39148-9998. Spokeswoman Pamela Tolbert-Bynum reiterated
that the boarding school is primarily for African-American
youngsters in grades 7-12 ``who want to be here,'' as opposed to
those whose parents insist that they attend. Also, the school is
mandated by its charter to have at least two-thirds of its students
coming from low-income homes. Information: 601-845-2214.

   Q: The other day, a TV weatherman said it was raining, and the
humidity was 97 percent. I don't understand. Doesn't humidity have
to be 100 percent for rain to be falling?

   A: It all depends. For rain to fall, the air has to be saturated
to the point that it can't hold any more moisture. That's what
happens in the clouds where the rain forms, said meterologist Gary
Beeler of the National Weather Service. And that's where the
humidity has to be 100 percent, or very close. But that doesn't
mean it has to be 100 percent on the ground. In the West, it's not
uncommon for rain to be falling and the humidity at ground level to
be, say, 50 percent, Beeler said. In that case, the rain would
evaporate quickly. But if the rain falls heavily enough, and for a
long enough time, the humidity at ground level would rise and
likely would reach 100 percent.

   Q: House Speaker Newt Gingrich recently spoke before the
Knesset, Israel's Parliament, and he backs Israeli interests in the
United States. Is his wife still a lobbyist for Israel?

   A: No. Marianne Gingrich once worked as a marketing agent for
the Israel Export Development Co., which was developing a free
trade zone in Israel. Last year, Gingrich's office reported that
she was on indefinite leave of absence from the job. Now she's no
longer affiliated with Israel Export Development Co., nor does she
work at all, said Ginny Williams of Gingrich's district office.

   (END)

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0054 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 10:13 ',
			header: '
A4401 &Cx1f; tad-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE     06-11 1006
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE1-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   Have a question about the news? Colin Bessonette will try to get
an answer. Call 404-222-2002, or write him at The Atlanta
Journal-Constitution, P.O. Box 4689, Atlanta, Ga. 30302, or e-mail
him at q&AMP;a(at)ajc.com

   Q: I was living in Rhode Island during the Claus von Bulow trial
for attempted murder. People followed it with as much fascination
as they did O.J. Simpson's trial. How about an update on Sunny von
Bulow? Is she still alive? And can you refresh my memory about the
circumstances of her case?

   A: As of late March, the Boston Globe reported that
millionairess Martha von Bulow, nicknamed Sunny, remained in an
irreversible coma at New York's Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. But
a hospital spokesman, Bob de Luna, now says she's no longer there.
He declined to provide any further details, saying information
about patients is confidential. Diane Alexander, a spokeswoman for
the National Victim Center in Arlington, Va., which was co-founded
by Von Bulow's daughter, Ala Isham, says that ``as far as we know,
her (Von Bulow's') condition is unchanged.'' Alexander declined to
provide any further information, including Von Bulow's whereabouts.

   The woman's former husband, Danish-born socialite Claus von
Bulow, was acquitted in 1985 at a second trial on charges he tried
to murder her. He was accused of attempting to kill her by
injecting her with insulin in December 1979 and again in December
1980. She recovered from the first coma, but went into another coma
a year later. Defense attorneys argued that she brought on the
comas herself through alcohol and drug abuse. In 1987, Claus von
Bulow agreed to a divorce and renounced all claim on his wife's $80
million fortune.

   One positive upshot of the Sunny von Bulow case is the National
Victim Center. Established in 1985 in her honor, it serves as a
resource center for more than 8,000 victim advocacy and criminal
justice organizations, with the aim of protecting the rights of
victims of violent crime.

   Q: Where can I get information about Teen Mania Ministries? I
understand it sends American teenagers to foreign countries to
convert their audiences to Christianity.

   A: Teen Mania Ministries describes itself as one of the nation's
largest youth ministry programs. A non-profit 501(c)3 organization,
it was founded in 1986. Since then, it has taken more than 10,000
American teens to 35 countries. This summer, it plans to take 4,000
young people to 20 countries, a spokeswoman said.

   Information: Teen Mania Ministries, P.O. Box 2000, Garden
Valley, TX 75771-2000 (1-800-438-2392); or, on the Internet:
www.teenmania.org/index.html

   Q: My son says he thinks Australia has nuclear weapons
capability, and has detonated bombs. I haven't heard that. Can you
list all the countries with nuclear bomb capability? A dinner is
riding on this.

   A: Make him take you to Outback, and order big. Australia is not
among nations having declared or undeclared nuclear weapons
capacity, and it is not believed to have had nuclear weapons in the
past.

   Using information provided by the Natural Resouces Defense
Council, the Arms Control Association, and the Institute for
Science and International Security, Congressional Quarterly
recently provided a breakdown on the spread of such weapons.
Countries with declared nuclear weapons capacity: United States,
Britain, France, Russia, China, India, Pakistan. Country with
undeclared capacity: Israel. Countries seeking weapons capacity:
Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Libya. Countries that gave up nuclear
weapons: Belarus, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, South Africa. Countries that
ended nuclear weapons programs: Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, South
Korea, Sweden, Taiwan.

   Q: I haven't seen the list of hurricane names for 1998. What are
they?

   A: Alex, Bonnie, Charley, Danielle, Earl, Frances, Georges,
Hermine, Ivan, Jeanne, Karl, Lisa, Mitch, Nicole, Otto, Paula,
Richard, Shary, Tomas, Virginie and Walter.

   Q: How unusual is it for a student to score a perfect 1600 on
the Scholastic Assessement Test?

   A: The College Board, which administers the SAT, uses the term
``maximum score'' as opposed to ``perfect,'' because it's possible
to make an error or two and still score 1600, said spokesman Ed
Tate. In 1996-97, the most recent year for which statistics are
available, 1.8 million people took the test a total of 2.05 million
times (many people took it more than one time); 453 scored 1600.

   Q: Who in the Sam Hill was Sam Hill?

   A: If you want to accept the explanation presented by Edwin V.
Mitchell in the book Encyclopedia of American Politics (1946), the
expression can be traced to a Col. Samuel Hill of Guilford, Conn.,
who perpetually ran for office but failed to be elected. The book
says that led to the phrases ``go like Sam Hill'' or ``run like Sam
Hill.'' But since the existence of a Col. Samuel Hill can't be
documented, Sam Hill must remain a personalized euphemism first
coined by frontiersman for ``hell,'' especially when they had to
clean up their language in the presence of ladies.

   Q: Why do Atlanta Braves games always start at 10 minutes or 40
minutes after the hour, as opposed to on the hour or on the
half-hour?

   A: Credit the creativity of Ted Turner. He launched his concept
on June 29, 1981. He had a two-fold reason for beginning TBS
programming slightly off the traditional hour and half-hour
starting times, according to Tom Hughes of TBS Sports. First, it
would separate TBS from all the other stations and networks in TV
listings, ``making TBS stand out.'' And second, if people tuned
into network programming at the top of the hour or on the half-hour
and didn't like what they saw, they could surf; and when they found
TBS, they wouldn't miss the beginning of the game or program.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Q &AMP; A ON THE NEWS
 &HT;    By Colin Bessonette
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   Have a question about the news? Colin Bessonette will try to get
an answer. Call 404-222-2002, or write him at The Atlanta
Journal-Constitution, P.O. Box 4689, Atlanta, Ga. 30302, or e-mail
him at q&AMP;a(at)ajc.com

   Q: I was living in Rhode Island during the Claus von Bulow trial
for attempted murder. People followed it with as much fascination
as they did O.J. Simpson's trial. How about an update on Sunny von
Bulow? Is she still alive? And can you refresh my memory about the
circumstances of her case?

   A: As of late March, the Boston Globe reported that
millionairess Martha von Bulow, nicknamed Sunny, remained in an
irreversible coma at New York's Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. But
a hospital spokesman, Bob de Luna, now says she's no longer there.
He declined to provide any further details, saying information
about patients is confidential. Diane Alexander, a spokeswoman for
the National Victim Center in Arlington, Va., which was co-founded
by Von Bulow's daughter, Ala Isham, says that ``as far as we know,
her (Von Bulow's') condition is unchanged.'' Alexander declined to
provide any further information, including Von Bulow's whereabouts.

   The woman's former husband, Danish-born socialite Claus von
Bulow, was acquitted in 1985 at a second trial on charges he tried
to murder her. He was accused of attempting to kill her by
injecting her with insulin in December 1979 and again in December
1980. She recovered from the first coma, but went into another coma
a year later. Defense attorneys argued that she brought on the
comas herself through alcohol and drug abuse. In 1987, Claus von
Bulow agreed to a divorce and renounced all claim on his wife's $80
million fortune.

   One positive upshot of the Sunny von Bulow case is the National
Victim Center. Established in 1985 in her honor, it serves as a
resource center for more than 8,000 victim advocacy and criminal
justice organizations, with the aim of protecting the rights of
victims of violent crime.

   Q: Where can I get information about Teen Mania Ministries? I
understand it sends American teenagers to foreign countries to
convert their audiences to Christianity.

   A: Teen Mania Ministries describes itself as one of the nation's
largest youth ministry programs. A non-profit 501(c)3 organization,
it was founded in 1986. Since then, it has taken more than 10,000
American teens to 35 countries. This summer, it plans to take 4,000
young people to 20 countries, a spokeswoman said.

   Information: Teen Mania Ministries, P.O. Box 2000, Garden
Valley, TX 75771-2000 (1-800-438-2392); or, on the Internet:
www.teenmania.org/index.html

   Q: My son says he thinks Australia has nuclear weapons
capability, and has detonated bombs. I haven't heard that. Can you
list all the countries with nuclear bomb capability? A dinner is
riding on this.

   A: Make him take you to Outback, and order big. Australia is not
among nations having declared or undeclared nuclear weapons
capacity, and it is not believed to have had nuclear weapons in the
past.

   Using information provided by the Natural Resouces Defense
Council, the Arms Control Association, and the Institute for
Science and International Security, Congressional Quarterly
recently provided a breakdown on the spread of such weapons.
Countries with declared nuclear weapons capacity: United States,
Britain, France, Russia, China, India, Pakistan. Country with
undeclared capacity: Israel. Countries seeking weapons capacity:
Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Libya. Countries that gave up nuclear
weapons: Belarus, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, South Africa. Countries that
ended nuclear weapons programs: Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, South
Korea, Sweden, Taiwan.

   Q: I haven't seen the list of hurricane names for 1998. What are
they?

   A: Alex, Bonnie, Charley, Danielle, Earl, Frances, Georges,
Hermine, Ivan, Jeanne, Karl, Lisa, Mitch, Nicole, Otto, Paula,
Richard, Shary, Tomas, Virginie and Walter.

   Q: How unusual is it for a student to score a perfect 1600 on
the Scholastic Assessement Test?

   A: The College Board, which administers the SAT, uses the term
``maximum score'' as opposed to ``perfect,'' because it's possible
to make an error or two and still score 1600, said spokesman Ed
Tate. In 1996-97, the most recent year for which statistics are
available, 1.8 million people took the test a total of 2.05 million
times (many people took it more than one time); 453 scored 1600.

   Q: Who in the Sam Hill was Sam Hill?

   A: If you want to accept the explanation presented by Edwin V.
Mitchell in the book Encyclopedia of American Politics (1946), the
expression can be traced to a Col. Samuel Hill of Guilford, Conn.,
who perpetually ran for office but failed to be elected. The book
says that led to the phrases ``go like Sam Hill'' or ``run like Sam
Hill.'' But since the existence of a Col. Samuel Hill can't be
documented, Sam Hill must remain a personalized euphemism first
coined by frontiersman for ``hell,'' especially when they had to
clean up their language in the presence of ladies.

   Q: Why do Atlanta Braves games always start at 10 minutes or 40
minutes after the hour, as opposed to on the hour or on the
half-hour?

   A: Credit the creativity of Ted Turner. He launched his concept
on June 29, 1981. He had a two-fold reason for beginning TBS
programming slightly off the traditional hour and half-hour
starting times, according to Tom Hughes of TBS Sports. First, it
would separate TBS from all the other stations and networks in TV
listings, ``making TBS stand out.'' And second, if people tuned
into network programming at the top of the hour or on the half-hour
and didn't like what they saw, they could surf; and when they found
TBS, they wouldn't miss the beginning of the game or program.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0055 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 10:14 ',
			header: '
A4402 &Cx1f; tad-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE     06-11 1272
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE2-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   UNDATED: Why do the Braves start their games late?

   Q: I was told that a decommissioned Navy ship, either a
battleship or aircraft carrier, was towed to sea and sunk a few
days ago. I hope it wasn't the legendary battleship Missouri. I
couldn't take the strain. Do you know what vessel it was?

   A: Stay calm. This is the way rumors get started. What actually
happened is that the battleship Missouri has been towed from
Bremerton, Wash., to Oregon. It will stay for several weeks in the
Columbia River so fresh water can cleanse the hull, said John
Reilly of the Navy Historical Center in Washington. Then it will be
towed to Hawaii, where it will be moored temporarily in Pearl
Harbor at Ford Island's Pier F-5 south of the USS Arizona Memorial.
The timetable for the move to Hawaii isn't known, but Reilly said
he thought it would arrive in the islands in the next month or two.
Later, the Missouri is expected to be moored permanently near the
old USS California at the seaward end of Battleship Row alongside
Ford Island.

   World War II, which began for the United States on Dec. 7, 1941,
with Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor, ended on the Missouri when
Japan signed the ``Instrument of Surrender'' on its decks Sept. 2,
1945.

   Q: Jacob Stein, one of Monica Lewinsky's new attorneys, was
described in news reports as a ``natty dresser'' who wears
spectators. What are spectators? My dictionary has no definition
related to clothing.

   A: They're shoes, either oxfords (for men) or pumps (for women).
Spectators are two-tone leather, usually black or brown on white,
with the darker trim on the toe, quarter and top band often
perforated. Women's versions often have a stacked leather heel.They
were popular in the 1920s, '30s and '40s, and got the name because
spectators at sporting events often wore them. Their design also
was used for golf shoes. They were revived as sporty dress shoes in
the '70s, then dropped out of fashion, but now are back in again.

   Q: What's the record speed for a train? The one that just
derailed and crashed in Germany was said to be going about 125
miles an hour.

   A: The world record was set in May 1990 by a test train of
France's TGV: 322 mph. A German test train reached 254 mph in May
1989. An experimental version of Japan's so-called ``bullet'' train
hit 252 mph in December 1993. All the trains normally travel below
these speeds in passenger service.

   Q: What is a heat index? How is it calculated, and what
information does it convey beyond a simple temperature reading in
degrees Fahrenheit or Celsius?

   A: Heat index is a number derived from actual air temperature
and relative humidity. It's the summertime equivalent of winter's
wind chill, which is the relative discomfort resulting from
combinations of wind and temperature.

   The heat index isn't arrived at by a simple mathematical
formula, such as adding percentages of the two. For example, if the
temperature is 80 and the relative humidity is 80, the heat index
is 86, meaning that's how hot it feels, or an ``apparent''
temperature. If the temperature is 90 and the humidity is 90, the
heat index would be 122: it feels like the apparent temperature is
122, even when the thermometer shows 90.

   Q: What is the Mississippi Attorney General's Office Public
Integrity Division? A photograph showed an officer wearing a shirt
with that inscription as he was escorting Samuel Bowers, who was
arrested in Hattiesburg, in connection with the 1966 slaying of
Mississippi civil rights leader Vernon Dahmer.

   A: The man wearing the shirt was Bill East, chief investigator
for Mississippi's Public Integrity Division. Lee Martin, director
of the agency, said it handles three types of investigations:
public corruption involving elected officials; white-collar crime;
and drug offenses.

   Mississippi is divided into 22 judicial districts, each with a
DA responsible for felony offenses in that district, Martin said.
When any of those DAs request assistance, because they often don't
have the resources to investigate and prosecute a case, the Public
Integrity Division assists. Having both investigative and
prosecutorial resources allowed the division to arrest Bowers and
go forward with the case, Martin said. His division consists of 10
investigators, including East, and three prosecutors.

   Q: A recent article mentioned that the U.S. has five
territories. Will you name them?

   A: The territories are American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands
and various Pacific islands. Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana
Islands once were U.S. territories, but now are commonwealths. The
United States actually has 14 ``dependent areas,'' according to the
World Factbook, which include all these and some other Pacific
islands and atolls.

   Q: A commentator said the family of Barry Goldwater might have
his ashes scattered in the Grand Canyon, but the Navajos were
objecting. Why would they care?

   A: A point in Navajo philosophy explains the objection to the
scattering of anyone's ashes in the canyon. According to tribal
belief, when a person dies, the corpse enters the realm of an evil
world and has the power to haunt the living and inflict physical
and mental pain on them. Although Arizona state Sen. James
Henderson said the Navajo Nation opposed any plan to scatter
Goldwater's ashes in the canyon, a Navajo spokesman, George Joe,
later disputed him, saying the tribe had taken no position.

   Q: Do you know how that poem goes about the days of the week on
which a child is born, such as ``Monday's child is full of grace''
and so on? I don't know the rest of it.

   A: Monday's Child is fair of face,/ Tuesday's Child is full of
grace,/ Wednesday's Child is full of woe, / Thursday's Child has
far to go,/ Friday's Child is loving and giving,/ Saturday's Child
works hard for a living,/ But the Child that is born on the Sabbath
Day,/ Is bonny, and blithe, and good, and gay!

   Q: Years ago, I heard that Shirley MacLaine was the only female
member of the so-called ``Rat Pack,'' but in all the articles after
Frank Sinatra's death, I saw no reference to that. Am I just
dreaming?

   A: She ran with the Pack at times, but most observers didn't
consider her in the same league as the group's main members:
Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Joey Bishop and Peter
Lawford. She wasn't, for example, a major part of the cast of
``Oceans Eleven,'' the 1960 movie with the other five that cemented
the Pack as a fixture in the public's mind. And an article in
Esquire after Martin died in late 1995 referred to MacLaine only as
``the Rat Pack's favorite arm piece'' and its ``distaff mascot.''
Still, since no other woman was identified more closely with the
group than MacLaine, she could be considered a member, if only as a
lesser player.

   Q: Who came up with the name Rat Pack, that show biz gang led by
the late Frank Sinatra?

   A: The term was coined by Lauren Bacall, according to a recent
Newsweek article about Sinatra's life and death, and originally was
applied to her husband Humphrey Bogart's drinking circle: David
Niven, Judy Garland, Irving ``Swifty'' Lazar (an agent),
restaurateur Mike Romanoff and Sinatra, a ``junior inductee.''
After Bogart died in 1957, Sinatra co-opted the term and began
applying it to his cronies, including Dean Martin, Joey Bishop,
Sammy Davis Jr. and Peter Lawford.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Q &AMP; A ON THE NEWS
 &HT;    By Colin Bessonette
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   UNDATED: Why do the Braves start their games late?

   Q: I was told that a decommissioned Navy ship, either a
battleship or aircraft carrier, was towed to sea and sunk a few
days ago. I hope it wasn't the legendary battleship Missouri. I
couldn't take the strain. Do you know what vessel it was?

   A: Stay calm. This is the way rumors get started. What actually
happened is that the battleship Missouri has been towed from
Bremerton, Wash., to Oregon. It will stay for several weeks in the
Columbia River so fresh water can cleanse the hull, said John
Reilly of the Navy Historical Center in Washington. Then it will be
towed to Hawaii, where it will be moored temporarily in Pearl
Harbor at Ford Island's Pier F-5 south of the USS Arizona Memorial.
The timetable for the move to Hawaii isn't known, but Reilly said
he thought it would arrive in the islands in the next month or two.
Later, the Missouri is expected to be moored permanently near the
old USS California at the seaward end of Battleship Row alongside
Ford Island.

   World War II, which began for the United States on Dec. 7, 1941,
with Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor, ended on the Missouri when
Japan signed the ``Instrument of Surrender'' on its decks Sept. 2,
1945.

   Q: Jacob Stein, one of Monica Lewinsky's new attorneys, was
described in news reports as a ``natty dresser'' who wears
spectators. What are spectators? My dictionary has no definition
related to clothing.

   A: They're shoes, either oxfords (for men) or pumps (for women).
Spectators are two-tone leather, usually black or brown on white,
with the darker trim on the toe, quarter and top band often
perforated. Women's versions often have a stacked leather heel.They
were popular in the 1920s, '30s and '40s, and got the name because
spectators at sporting events often wore them. Their design also
was used for golf shoes. They were revived as sporty dress shoes in
the '70s, then dropped out of fashion, but now are back in again.

   Q: What's the record speed for a train? The one that just
derailed and crashed in Germany was said to be going about 125
miles an hour.

   A: The world record was set in May 1990 by a test train of
France's TGV: 322 mph. A German test train reached 254 mph in May
1989. An experimental version of Japan's so-called ``bullet'' train
hit 252 mph in December 1993. All the trains normally travel below
these speeds in passenger service.

   Q: What is a heat index? How is it calculated, and what
information does it convey beyond a simple temperature reading in
degrees Fahrenheit or Celsius?

   A: Heat index is a number derived from actual air temperature
and relative humidity. It's the summertime equivalent of winter's
wind chill, which is the relative discomfort resulting from
combinations of wind and temperature.

   The heat index isn't arrived at by a simple mathematical
formula, such as adding percentages of the two. For example, if the
temperature is 80 and the relative humidity is 80, the heat index
is 86, meaning that's how hot it feels, or an ``apparent''
temperature. If the temperature is 90 and the humidity is 90, the
heat index would be 122: it feels like the apparent temperature is
122, even when the thermometer shows 90.

   Q: What is the Mississippi Attorney General's Office Public
Integrity Division? A photograph showed an officer wearing a shirt
with that inscription as he was escorting Samuel Bowers, who was
arrested in Hattiesburg, in connection with the 1966 slaying of
Mississippi civil rights leader Vernon Dahmer.

   A: The man wearing the shirt was Bill East, chief investigator
for Mississippi's Public Integrity Division. Lee Martin, director
of the agency, said it handles three types of investigations:
public corruption involving elected officials; white-collar crime;
and drug offenses.

   Mississippi is divided into 22 judicial districts, each with a
DA responsible for felony offenses in that district, Martin said.
When any of those DAs request assistance, because they often don't
have the resources to investigate and prosecute a case, the Public
Integrity Division assists. Having both investigative and
prosecutorial resources allowed the division to arrest Bowers and
go forward with the case, Martin said. His division consists of 10
investigators, including East, and three prosecutors.

   Q: A recent article mentioned that the U.S. has five
territories. Will you name them?

   A: The territories are American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands
and various Pacific islands. Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana
Islands once were U.S. territories, but now are commonwealths. The
United States actually has 14 ``dependent areas,'' according to the
World Factbook, which include all these and some other Pacific
islands and atolls.

   Q: A commentator said the family of Barry Goldwater might have
his ashes scattered in the Grand Canyon, but the Navajos were
objecting. Why would they care?

   A: A point in Navajo philosophy explains the objection to the
scattering of anyone's ashes in the canyon. According to tribal
belief, when a person dies, the corpse enters the realm of an evil
world and has the power to haunt the living and inflict physical
and mental pain on them. Although Arizona state Sen. James
Henderson said the Navajo Nation opposed any plan to scatter
Goldwater's ashes in the canyon, a Navajo spokesman, George Joe,
later disputed him, saying the tribe had taken no position.

   Q: Do you know how that poem goes about the days of the week on
which a child is born, such as ``Monday's child is full of grace''
and so on? I don't know the rest of it.

   A: Monday's Child is fair of face,/ Tuesday's Child is full of
grace,/ Wednesday's Child is full of woe, / Thursday's Child has
far to go,/ Friday's Child is loving and giving,/ Saturday's Child
works hard for a living,/ But the Child that is born on the Sabbath
Day,/ Is bonny, and blithe, and good, and gay!

   Q: Years ago, I heard that Shirley MacLaine was the only female
member of the so-called ``Rat Pack,'' but in all the articles after
Frank Sinatra's death, I saw no reference to that. Am I just
dreaming?

   A: She ran with the Pack at times, but most observers didn't
consider her in the same league as the group's main members:
Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Joey Bishop and Peter
Lawford. She wasn't, for example, a major part of the cast of
``Oceans Eleven,'' the 1960 movie with the other five that cemented
the Pack as a fixture in the public's mind. And an article in
Esquire after Martin died in late 1995 referred to MacLaine only as
``the Rat Pack's favorite arm piece'' and its ``distaff mascot.''
Still, since no other woman was identified more closely with the
group than MacLaine, she could be considered a member, if only as a
lesser player.

   Q: Who came up with the name Rat Pack, that show biz gang led by
the late Frank Sinatra?

   A: The term was coined by Lauren Bacall, according to a recent
Newsweek article about Sinatra's life and death, and originally was
applied to her husband Humphrey Bogart's drinking circle: David
Niven, Judy Garland, Irving ``Swifty'' Lazar (an agent),
restaurateur Mike Romanoff and Sinatra, a ``junior inductee.''
After Bogart died in 1957, Sinatra co-opted the term and began
applying it to his cronies, including Dean Martin, Joey Bishop,
Sammy Davis Jr. and Peter Lawford.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0056 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 10:14 ',
			header: '
A4403 &Cx1f; tad-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE     06-11 0481
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE3-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   UNDATED: Who came up with the name Rat Pack?

   Q: Who are the Major League baseball players who have hit four
home runs in one game, and what were the dates?

   A: National League: Bobby Lowe, Boston Braves (known as
Beaneaters), May 30, 1894; Ed Delahanty, Philadelphia Phillies,
July 13, 1896; Chuck Klein, Phillies, July 10, 1936; Gil Hodges,
Brooklyn Dodgers, Aug. 31, 1950; Joe Adcock, Milwaukee Braves, July
31, 1954; Willie Mays, San Francisco Giants, April 30, 1961; Mike
Schmidt, Phillies, April 17, 1976; Bob Horner, Atlanta Braves, July
6, 1986; Mark Whiten, St. Louis Cardinals, Sept. 7, 1993.

   American League: Lou Gehrig, New York Yankees, June 3, 1932; Pat
Seerey, Chicago White Sox, July 18, 1949; Rocky Colavito, Cleveland
Indians, June 10, 1959.

   Klein, Schmidt and Seerey accomplished the feat in extra-inning
games.

   Q: Of those batters who have four homers in a single game,
didn't some do it in consecutive times at bat?

   A: Yes: Bobby Lowe, Lou Gehrig, Rocky Colavito and Mike Schmidt
accomplished this amazing feat.

   Q: It was reported that a teenage girl in Salt Lake City was
beaten because she refused to be the 15th wife of her father's
brother. Is polygamy still legal in Utah?

   A: No. It's against the law in Utah, but law enforcement
officials rarely investigate or prosecute those who practice it.
John Daniel Kingston, 43-year-old father of the 16-year-old girl
involved, is the patriarch of a large and well-known polygamist
clan in Utah. He turned himself in to sheriff's detectives after
the girl called police to report the beating. The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), by the way, which is
headquartered in Salt Lake City, ceased acceptance of multiple
marriages in 1890, after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled it illegal.
But some splinter groups continue the practice.

   Q: I read this statement in a book: ``There are twelve stores
and business houses, a bank, good hotel, Masonic Lodge, three
churches, no bar rooms and no blind tiger.'' What are blind tigers?

   A: The term comes from the Prohibition-era custom of
establishments displaying stuffed tigers to alert patrons to
speakeasies or the availability of alcohol.

   Q: What's the difference between smog and haze?

   A: Both reduce visibility, but they aren't caused by the same
thing. Smog is air pollution consisting of smoke and fog. Haze is
fine dust or salt particles _ so small that they can't be felt, or
seen with the naked eye _ in the atmosphere. The particles diminish
horizontal visibility and give the atmosphere a characteristic
opalescent appearance that subdues all colors.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Q &AMP; A ON THE NEWS
 &HT;    By Colin Bessonette
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   UNDATED: Who came up with the name Rat Pack?

   Q: Who are the Major League baseball players who have hit four
home runs in one game, and what were the dates?

   A: National League: Bobby Lowe, Boston Braves (known as
Beaneaters), May 30, 1894; Ed Delahanty, Philadelphia Phillies,
July 13, 1896; Chuck Klein, Phillies, July 10, 1936; Gil Hodges,
Brooklyn Dodgers, Aug. 31, 1950; Joe Adcock, Milwaukee Braves, July
31, 1954; Willie Mays, San Francisco Giants, April 30, 1961; Mike
Schmidt, Phillies, April 17, 1976; Bob Horner, Atlanta Braves, July
6, 1986; Mark Whiten, St. Louis Cardinals, Sept. 7, 1993.

   American League: Lou Gehrig, New York Yankees, June 3, 1932; Pat
Seerey, Chicago White Sox, July 18, 1949; Rocky Colavito, Cleveland
Indians, June 10, 1959.

   Klein, Schmidt and Seerey accomplished the feat in extra-inning
games.

   Q: Of those batters who have four homers in a single game,
didn't some do it in consecutive times at bat?

   A: Yes: Bobby Lowe, Lou Gehrig, Rocky Colavito and Mike Schmidt
accomplished this amazing feat.

   Q: It was reported that a teenage girl in Salt Lake City was
beaten because she refused to be the 15th wife of her father's
brother. Is polygamy still legal in Utah?

   A: No. It's against the law in Utah, but law enforcement
officials rarely investigate or prosecute those who practice it.
John Daniel Kingston, 43-year-old father of the 16-year-old girl
involved, is the patriarch of a large and well-known polygamist
clan in Utah. He turned himself in to sheriff's detectives after
the girl called police to report the beating. The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), by the way, which is
headquartered in Salt Lake City, ceased acceptance of multiple
marriages in 1890, after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled it illegal.
But some splinter groups continue the practice.

   Q: I read this statement in a book: ``There are twelve stores
and business houses, a bank, good hotel, Masonic Lodge, three
churches, no bar rooms and no blind tiger.'' What are blind tigers?

   A: The term comes from the Prohibition-era custom of
establishments displaying stuffed tigers to alert patrons to
speakeasies or the availability of alcohol.

   Q: What's the difference between smog and haze?

   A: Both reduce visibility, but they aren't caused by the same
thing. Smog is air pollution consisting of smoke and fog. Haze is
fine dust or salt particles _ so small that they can't be felt, or
seen with the naked eye _ in the atmosphere. The particles diminish
horizontal visibility and give the atmosphere a characteristic
opalescent appearance that subdues all colors.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0057 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 10:14 ',
			header: '
A4404 &Cx1f; tad-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE     06-11 0782
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWS-QUESTIONS12-TAKE4-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   UNDATED: What's the difference between smog and haze?

   Q: Rosa Parks, the civil rights activist, was back in the news
when she was hospitalized after a fall. In all the articles I've
read over the years about her refusal to give up her seat on a bus
for a white man, I've never seen his name. Was it ever made public?

   A: No particular passenger was identified after Parks refused to
give up her seat in Montgomery, Ala., on Dec. 1, 1955, when white
passengers boarded the bus. The name of the driver, however, was
recorded, and it was he, more than any single passenger, who
sparked the incident. When driver James F. Blake asked Parks and
three other black passengers to vacate a row of seats, conforming
to the practice of the time in Montgomery, she recognized him as
the same driver who, in 1943, had evicted her from his bus for
boarding through the front door. So, when he confronted Parks again
12 years later, she remembered him. The latter incident, of course,
triggered a boycott of the bus system and, ultimately, played a
major role in the nation's civil rights movement.

   Q: Is it possible that India's and Pakistan's nuclear testing
somehow triggered the deadly earthquake in Afghanistan, perhaps by
destabilizing a fault line?

   A: ``There's no relationship whatsoever,'' said Waverly Person
of the U.S. Geological Survey in Golden, Colo. The latest
earthquake in Afghanistan is hundreds of miles from the nuclear
testing sites. India's underground explosions were at a range near
Pokaran, 330 miles southwest of New Delhi. Pakistan's underground
blasts were in the Chagai region of the southwestern Baluchistan
province. The area where the latest Afghanistan quake occurred is
in a remote, mountainous area 45 miles west of Faisabad, capital of
Badakhshan province, near the border with Tajikstan.

   As Person pointed out, the area is prone to destructive quakes,
such as one that occurred there in February, killing 2,300 people
and leaving 8,000 homeless. That was about three months before the
underground nuclear explosions set off by India, which were met in
response by Pakistan's tests.

   Q: I recently read an article about Piney Woods Country Life
School, a Mississippi boarding school for black children. The
article said it places inner-city teens in a rural and religious
setting, imposes strict discipline and offers support and advice,
with more than 95 percent of its graduates going on to college. How
can I get information about enrolling children there?

   A: Write and request an information packet or an admissions
packet: Piney Woods Country Life School, U.S. 49 South, Piney
Woods, MS 39148-9998. Spokeswoman Pamela Tolbert-Bynum reiterated
that the boarding school is primarily for African-American
youngsters in grades 7-12 ``who want to be here,'' as opposed to
those whose parents insist that they attend. Also, the school is
mandated by its charter to have at least two-thirds of its students
coming from low-income homes. Information: 601-845-2214.

   Q: The other day, a TV weatherman said it was raining, and the
humidity was 97 percent. I don't understand. Doesn't humidity have
to be 100 percent for rain to be falling?

   A: It all depends. For rain to fall, the air has to be saturated
to the point that it can't hold any more moisture. That's what
happens in the clouds where the rain forms, said meterologist Gary
Beeler of the National Weather Service. And that's where the
humidity has to be 100 percent, or very close. But that doesn't
mean it has to be 100 percent on the ground. In the West, it's not
uncommon for rain to be falling and the humidity at ground level to
be, say, 50 percent, Beeler said. In that case, the rain would
evaporate quickly. But if the rain falls heavily enough, and for a
long enough time, the humidity at ground level would rise and
likely would reach 100 percent.

   Q: House Speaker Newt Gingrich recently spoke before the
Knesset, Israel's Parliament, and he backs Israeli interests in the
United States. Is his wife still a lobbyist for Israel?

   A: No. Marianne Gingrich once worked as a marketing agent for
the Israel Export Development Co., which was developing a free
trade zone in Israel. Last year, Gingrich's office reported that
she was on indefinite leave of absence from the job. Now she's no
longer affiliated with Israel Export Development Co., nor does she
work at all, said Ginny Williams of Gingrich's district office.

   (END)

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Q &AMP; A ON THE NEWS
 &HT;    By Colin Bessonette
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   UNDATED: What's the difference between smog and haze?

   Q: Rosa Parks, the civil rights activist, was back in the news
when she was hospitalized after a fall. In all the articles I've
read over the years about her refusal to give up her seat on a bus
for a white man, I've never seen his name. Was it ever made public?

   A: No particular passenger was identified after Parks refused to
give up her seat in Montgomery, Ala., on Dec. 1, 1955, when white
passengers boarded the bus. The name of the driver, however, was
recorded, and it was he, more than any single passenger, who
sparked the incident. When driver James F. Blake asked Parks and
three other black passengers to vacate a row of seats, conforming
to the practice of the time in Montgomery, she recognized him as
the same driver who, in 1943, had evicted her from his bus for
boarding through the front door. So, when he confronted Parks again
12 years later, she remembered him. The latter incident, of course,
triggered a boycott of the bus system and, ultimately, played a
major role in the nation's civil rights movement.

   Q: Is it possible that India's and Pakistan's nuclear testing
somehow triggered the deadly earthquake in Afghanistan, perhaps by
destabilizing a fault line?

   A: ``There's no relationship whatsoever,'' said Waverly Person
of the U.S. Geological Survey in Golden, Colo. The latest
earthquake in Afghanistan is hundreds of miles from the nuclear
testing sites. India's underground explosions were at a range near
Pokaran, 330 miles southwest of New Delhi. Pakistan's underground
blasts were in the Chagai region of the southwestern Baluchistan
province. The area where the latest Afghanistan quake occurred is
in a remote, mountainous area 45 miles west of Faisabad, capital of
Badakhshan province, near the border with Tajikstan.

   As Person pointed out, the area is prone to destructive quakes,
such as one that occurred there in February, killing 2,300 people
and leaving 8,000 homeless. That was about three months before the
underground nuclear explosions set off by India, which were met in
response by Pakistan's tests.

   Q: I recently read an article about Piney Woods Country Life
School, a Mississippi boarding school for black children. The
article said it places inner-city teens in a rural and religious
setting, imposes strict discipline and offers support and advice,
with more than 95 percent of its graduates going on to college. How
can I get information about enrolling children there?

   A: Write and request an information packet or an admissions
packet: Piney Woods Country Life School, U.S. 49 South, Piney
Woods, MS 39148-9998. Spokeswoman Pamela Tolbert-Bynum reiterated
that the boarding school is primarily for African-American
youngsters in grades 7-12 ``who want to be here,'' as opposed to
those whose parents insist that they attend. Also, the school is
mandated by its charter to have at least two-thirds of its students
coming from low-income homes. Information: 601-845-2214.

   Q: The other day, a TV weatherman said it was raining, and the
humidity was 97 percent. I don't understand. Doesn't humidity have
to be 100 percent for rain to be falling?

   A: It all depends. For rain to fall, the air has to be saturated
to the point that it can't hold any more moisture. That's what
happens in the clouds where the rain forms, said meterologist Gary
Beeler of the National Weather Service. And that's where the
humidity has to be 100 percent, or very close. But that doesn't
mean it has to be 100 percent on the ground. In the West, it's not
uncommon for rain to be falling and the humidity at ground level to
be, say, 50 percent, Beeler said. In that case, the rain would
evaporate quickly. But if the rain falls heavily enough, and for a
long enough time, the humidity at ground level would rise and
likely would reach 100 percent.

   Q: House Speaker Newt Gingrich recently spoke before the
Knesset, Israel's Parliament, and he backs Israeli interests in the
United States. Is his wife still a lobbyist for Israel?

   A: No. Marianne Gingrich once worked as a marketing agent for
the Israel Export Development Co., which was developing a free
trade zone in Israel. Last year, Gingrich's office reported that
she was on indefinite leave of absence from the job. Now she's no
longer affiliated with Israel Export Development Co., nor does she
work at all, said Ginny Williams of Gingrich's district office.

   (END)

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0058 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 10:33 ',
			header: '
A4425 &Cx1f; tab-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SPECIALS-BUDGET-NYTSF     06-11 0717
',
			slug: ' BC-SPECIALS-BUDGET-NYTSF ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   1. I CRY FOR NIGERIA Interview with Wole Soyinka, the first
African to win the Nobel Prize for Literature. Soyinka has been
critical of Nigeria's home-grown dictators for decades. By Zia
Jaffrey. From The Progressive. Q&AMP;A format. 1,300 words. 2. A SICKLE
IN THE CLOUDS A 70-million-year-old fossil bird recently found in
Madagascar may just clinch the argument that birds descended from
two-legged dinosaurs. By Carl Zimmer. From Discover magazine. 600
words + photo. 3. NATURE THROUGH THE LENS : HOW TO TAKE

   GREAT WILDLIFE PHOTOS Today's hunters are increasingly armed not
with guns but with cameras, as wildlife photography becomes a
hobby, pastime or obsession. Robert Winkler offers a series of tips
on shot selection, equipment, animal approach and safety which are
useful on an African safari or in your own back yard. 1,400 words +
photo. 4. MOVING WITH CHILDREN Moving is hard enough for adults,
but when children are involved, the problems multiply. Writing from
experience - she is the veteran of a recent 600-mile move with a
2-year-old and a 6-week-old - Leah Ingram offers practical advice
on what and how to pack, what to take with you during the move and
what are the key things to do once you arrive. Two helpful sidebars
offer advice on in-car entertainment for children and how to find
friends in a new town. 1,400 words. 5. THE FINE ART OF LISTENING TO
CHILDREN To a parent, listening fully to a child - including making
an effort to understand the emotional core behind a child's words -
can be the difference between an angry, resentful child and one who
enjoys confidence and self-esteem. Julia Martin looks at what you
need to do in order to really understand what your children are
saying. From Child magazine. 1,400
_______________________________________________________________ 6.
PET OWNERSHIP GOES GREEN People are learning to be more
environmentally aware and more health-conscious in their own lives
- but what about their pets' lives? Tracey C. Rembert reports that
many commercial pet foods and accessories are potentially dangerous
to pets and to people, as well as being environmentally negative.
Here are useful recommendations for natural products that will make
both your pet and the environment healthier and happier. From E :
The Environmental Magzine. 1,300 words.
_______________________________________________________________ 7.
RUBBING YOURSELF THE RIGHT WAY : SECRETS OF SELF-MASSAGE Few things
are more relaxing than a deep massage - but did you know that you
can actually get much the same results massaging yourself? Ken
McAlpine talks with massage experts for practical tips on the art
of self-massage, a source of relaxation and tension relief at home,
at the office or even on the road. From Spirit magzine. 1,400
words. 8. THE GLORIES OF GARLIC Charles Dickson looks at new
scientific research which is finding that garlic is a useful weapon
against all kinds of things -- from heart attacks and liver
dysfunction to stomach ulcers and immune problems. 1,000 words. 
____________________________________________________________________
____ 9 WHAT'S DOING IN ATHENS Tips on what to do, what to see,
where to stay and where to eat in Athens. By Toula Bogdanos. 1,700
words + photos. 
____________________________________________________________________
____ 10. FROM NEW SCIENTIST MAGAZINE (Not available Australia, New
Zealand, Brazil) A. Send In The Clouds : Gaia is still not taken
seriously by most respectable scientists. But what if one of its
key theories, that algae help to control climate, really has a
Darwinian explanation? By Lynn Hunt. 2,500 words. B. A New Dawn :
If the Web is to meet all our needs next century, it will take
nothing short of a revolution. So a smart way to translate anything
from Mn02 to the Moonlight Sonata into a universal language is a
fine start, argues Glyn Moody. 2,500 words. C. The Power Below :
The good news is there's enough methane locked away under the sea
to keep us going for centuries. The bad news is that getting it out
is going to be hellish, says Daniel Pendick. 2,500 words. D. Whose
Finger Is On The Button? Forget passwords or PIN numbers: there's a
chip that can tell who you are. By Mike May. 1,000 words.
',
			body: '

  
 NEWS &AMP; FEATURES SUMMARY No 2454 - JUNE 11, 1998  

',
			paragraphs: '
   1. I CRY FOR NIGERIA Interview with Wole Soyinka, the first
African to win the Nobel Prize for Literature. Soyinka has been
critical of Nigeria's home-grown dictators for decades. By Zia
Jaffrey. From The Progressive. Q&AMP;A format. 1,300 words. 2. A SICKLE
IN THE CLOUDS A 70-million-year-old fossil bird recently found in
Madagascar may just clinch the argument that birds descended from
two-legged dinosaurs. By Carl Zimmer. From Discover magazine. 600
words + photo. 3. NATURE THROUGH THE LENS : HOW TO TAKE

   GREAT WILDLIFE PHOTOS Today's hunters are increasingly armed not
with guns but with cameras, as wildlife photography becomes a
hobby, pastime or obsession. Robert Winkler offers a series of tips
on shot selection, equipment, animal approach and safety which are
useful on an African safari or in your own back yard. 1,400 words +
photo. 4. MOVING WITH CHILDREN Moving is hard enough for adults,
but when children are involved, the problems multiply. Writing from
experience - she is the veteran of a recent 600-mile move with a
2-year-old and a 6-week-old - Leah Ingram offers practical advice
on what and how to pack, what to take with you during the move and
what are the key things to do once you arrive. Two helpful sidebars
offer advice on in-car entertainment for children and how to find
friends in a new town. 1,400 words. 5. THE FINE ART OF LISTENING TO
CHILDREN To a parent, listening fully to a child - including making
an effort to understand the emotional core behind a child's words -
can be the difference between an angry, resentful child and one who
enjoys confidence and self-esteem. Julia Martin looks at what you
need to do in order to really understand what your children are
saying. From Child magazine. 1,400
_______________________________________________________________ 6.
PET OWNERSHIP GOES GREEN People are learning to be more
environmentally aware and more health-conscious in their own lives
- but what about their pets' lives? Tracey C. Rembert reports that
many commercial pet foods and accessories are potentially dangerous
to pets and to people, as well as being environmentally negative.
Here are useful recommendations for natural products that will make
both your pet and the environment healthier and happier. From E :
The Environmental Magzine. 1,300 words.
_______________________________________________________________ 7.
RUBBING YOURSELF THE RIGHT WAY : SECRETS OF SELF-MASSAGE Few things
are more relaxing than a deep massage - but did you know that you
can actually get much the same results massaging yourself? Ken
McAlpine talks with massage experts for practical tips on the art
of self-massage, a source of relaxation and tension relief at home,
at the office or even on the road. From Spirit magzine. 1,400
words. 8. THE GLORIES OF GARLIC Charles Dickson looks at new
scientific research which is finding that garlic is a useful weapon
against all kinds of things -- from heart attacks and liver
dysfunction to stomach ulcers and immune problems. 1,000 words. 
____________________________________________________________________
____ 9 WHAT'S DOING IN ATHENS Tips on what to do, what to see,
where to stay and where to eat in Athens. By Toula Bogdanos. 1,700
words + photos. 
____________________________________________________________________
____ 10. FROM NEW SCIENTIST MAGAZINE (Not available Australia, New
Zealand, Brazil) A. Send In The Clouds : Gaia is still not taken
seriously by most respectable scientists. But what if one of its
key theories, that algae help to control climate, really has a
Darwinian explanation? By Lynn Hunt. 2,500 words. B. A New Dawn :
If the Web is to meet all our needs next century, it will take
nothing short of a revolution. So a smart way to translate anything
from Mn02 to the Moonlight Sonata into a universal language is a
fine start, argues Glyn Moody. 2,500 words. C. The Power Below :
The good news is there's enough methane locked away under the sea
to keep us going for centuries. The bad news is that getting it out
is going to be hellish, says Daniel Pendick. 2,500 words. D. Whose
Finger Is On The Button? Forget passwords or PIN numbers: there's a
chip that can tell who you are. By Mike May. 1,000 words.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0059 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 11:21 ',
			header: '
A4469 &Cx1f; tad-z
r k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MCCARTY-COLUMN12-COX     06-11 0635
',
			slug: ' BC-MCCARTY-COLUMN12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   DAYTON, Ohio _ When you read the story, the most amazing thing
is that a powerful, successful and presumably savvy man would
actually open his mouth and say it.

   But sure enough, he did, for all the world to see. Mark H.
Willes, publisher of the Los Angeles Times, said in a Wall Street
Journal interview that women respond to stories that are ``more
emotional, more personal, less analytical.''

   Not to be outdone, The New York Times metropolitan editor Joyce
Purnick, speaking at Barnard College's commencement, said, ``There
is no way in an all-consuming profession like journalism that a
woman with children can devote as much time and energy as a man
can.''

   If I were more analytical, I would thank Mr. Willes and Ms.
Purnick for reminding us, lest we lapse into complacency, that a
lot of folks out there still feel that way. But, irrational soul
that I am, I just got mad.

   Mary Sue Kessler was more philosophical. ``Same old, same old,''
said Kessler, vice president at National City Bank and a longtime
advocate for women in the workplace. ``There may be more
enlightenment, but those attitudes are not gone forever and for
good.''

   The L.A. Times publisher is contrite, as well he might be. ``The
plain fact is, I misspoke,'' he said in a memo to staff Monday,
three weeks after he was confronted by 200 employees at a staff
meeting.

   Have you ever noticed when muckety-mucks say something that's
really, really dumb, they always misspoke? ``I didn't really mean
that egregiously racist/sexist/insensitive thing I just said; the
words just poured out during an episode of demonic possession.''

   Come off it. They're in trouble not because they misspoke but
because they said what they really think. And we're in trouble
because they think that way.

   Willes backed up his theories by pointing to women's strong
reaction to a series on the children of drug addicts. Yep, he's
right _ we can't grasp the tough issues, so we go for the sob
stories.

   Purnick, the first woman to run The New York Times metro staff,
told the Barnard grads that women who have children are taking the
career road to perdition. ``If I had left the Times to have
children, and then come back to work a four-day week the way some
women reporters on my staff now do, or if I had taken long
vacations and leaves to be with my family, or left the office at 6
o'clock instead of 8 or 9 _ I wouldn't be metro editor.''

   With rare exceptions, she said, ``women who have children get
off track and lose ground.''

   How do women counteract Purnick's messages, Willes' stereotypes?
What can the rest of us tell the young women of Barnard?

   Probably I'm not the best example, never having been a prototype
of time management, but my kids have made me more efficient, given
me incentive to get my work done on time. And one of the most
capable, productive women I've ever worked with _ and, not
incidentally, the boss _ used to leave the office most days at
5:30. Her example told us clearly: ``Get the job done, and done
well, in the eight or nine hours you're supposed to be here, and
get home to your families and your lives.''

   Notes Kessler, ``If mother and father share the responsibility,
both can succeed. You can be very successful and be a mother, but
you do need a team approach.''

   She points to National City Bank's new CEO, Kathy Hollingsworth,
who has two young children: ``All the women here are saying, 'Go
girl go!' ''

   There they go, getting all emotional again.

   Mary McCarty can be reached at mary_mccarty(at)coxohio.com

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Commentary: Women still fighting stereotypes in `enlightened'
age
 &HT;    By Mary McCarty
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   DAYTON, Ohio _ When you read the story, the most amazing thing
is that a powerful, successful and presumably savvy man would
actually open his mouth and say it.

   But sure enough, he did, for all the world to see. Mark H.
Willes, publisher of the Los Angeles Times, said in a Wall Street
Journal interview that women respond to stories that are ``more
emotional, more personal, less analytical.''

   Not to be outdone, The New York Times metropolitan editor Joyce
Purnick, speaking at Barnard College's commencement, said, ``There
is no way in an all-consuming profession like journalism that a
woman with children can devote as much time and energy as a man
can.''

   If I were more analytical, I would thank Mr. Willes and Ms.
Purnick for reminding us, lest we lapse into complacency, that a
lot of folks out there still feel that way. But, irrational soul
that I am, I just got mad.

   Mary Sue Kessler was more philosophical. ``Same old, same old,''
said Kessler, vice president at National City Bank and a longtime
advocate for women in the workplace. ``There may be more
enlightenment, but those attitudes are not gone forever and for
good.''

   The L.A. Times publisher is contrite, as well he might be. ``The
plain fact is, I misspoke,'' he said in a memo to staff Monday,
three weeks after he was confronted by 200 employees at a staff
meeting.

   Have you ever noticed when muckety-mucks say something that's
really, really dumb, they always misspoke? ``I didn't really mean
that egregiously racist/sexist/insensitive thing I just said; the
words just poured out during an episode of demonic possession.''

   Come off it. They're in trouble not because they misspoke but
because they said what they really think. And we're in trouble
because they think that way.

   Willes backed up his theories by pointing to women's strong
reaction to a series on the children of drug addicts. Yep, he's
right _ we can't grasp the tough issues, so we go for the sob
stories.

   Purnick, the first woman to run The New York Times metro staff,
told the Barnard grads that women who have children are taking the
career road to perdition. ``If I had left the Times to have
children, and then come back to work a four-day week the way some
women reporters on my staff now do, or if I had taken long
vacations and leaves to be with my family, or left the office at 6
o'clock instead of 8 or 9 _ I wouldn't be metro editor.''

   With rare exceptions, she said, ``women who have children get
off track and lose ground.''

   How do women counteract Purnick's messages, Willes' stereotypes?
What can the rest of us tell the young women of Barnard?

   Probably I'm not the best example, never having been a prototype
of time management, but my kids have made me more efficient, given
me incentive to get my work done on time. And one of the most
capable, productive women I've ever worked with _ and, not
incidentally, the boss _ used to leave the office most days at
5:30. Her example told us clearly: ``Get the job done, and done
well, in the eight or nine hours you're supposed to be here, and
get home to your families and your lives.''

   Notes Kessler, ``If mother and father share the responsibility,
both can succeed. You can be very successful and be a mother, but
you do need a team approach.''

   She points to National City Bank's new CEO, Kathy Hollingsworth,
who has two young children: ``All the women here are saying, 'Go
girl go!' ''

   There they go, getting all emotional again.

   Mary McCarty can be reached at mary_mccarty(at)coxohio.com

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0060 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 11:21 ',
			header: '
A4470 &Cx1f; tad-z
r k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-YOUNG-COLUMN12-COX     06-11 0637
',
			slug: ' BC-YOUNG-COLUMN12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   WACO, Texas _ `` Tell me every detail for I've got to know it
all. And do you have a picture of the pain?''

   These are the lyrics that protest singer Phil Ochs sang to Bobby
Kennedy at the back of a shuttle flight one night in Washington.
They're contained in Ochs' ``The Crucifixion'', which had been
written about many martyrs but was inspired when John Kennedy
became one.

   Every detail. Must we? A three-hour special on the Discovery
Channel, ``Robert Kennedy: A Memoir,'' reminds us how valuable
details can be. (Next broadcast: Sunday, 2 p.m. CST)

   Based on Jack Newfield's book by the same name, the documentary
depicts Kennedy's journey: from a corporal of Sen. Joseph McCarthy,
domino theorist on Vietnam and inert bystander on racial inequality
to an activist contrarian on each.

   In that tortured public journey is the story of an era, from the
red-baiting of the '50s to the bloodletting of the '60s.

   Thirty years after his assassination, a retrospective of this
sort helps to remind us what serious business the nation was
facing, and that people of courage did step to the plate.

   In these days when Jay Leno is our Walter Winchell and Letterman
is our Cronkite, it is easy to look back to the spirit of that time
as a wisp of marijuana smoke and a sex romp in the weeds. It is
politically profitable to denounce the sins of that rebelling
generation, while downplaying the sins against which all the
rebelling was going on.

   The fitting fact is that Robert Kennedy was of both generations.
Some of the weight he carried in a life of discovery was the
remorse of one who realized he'd been an accomplice to much that he
came to denounce.

   Civil rights leaders recount their initial disdain and distrust
for this man who, when first dealing with them, was running a
molasses-quick Justice Department on such things as equal
protection of the law. But they found that face-to-face meetings
changed impressions dramatically -- both for them and Kennedy.

   As a social conscience, Kennedy had many growth spurts.
Generally each had to do with face-to-face encounters -- with coal
miners, with migrant workers, with poor children of many stripes.

   In a scene that was so eerie as to be unearthly, it was Kennedy
who informed a heavily black campaign crowd that Martin Luther King
Jr. had been slain. From his text and tone, Kennedy conveyed to
millions that night the feeling that a fallen leader's torch had
not hit the ground.

   Tell us the details, sang the folk singer. We need to know them
all. In Waco a bit of history, about far-off lynchings in the town
square, has been resurrected lately. Must we know? Of course we
must. It may not be us, but it is part of what has made us.

   A black man is dragged to his death in Jasper, Texas, at the
bumper of a car. It's Page 1 news across the country, and that's
good. Not a whole generation ago such a murder might not have made
the news at all.

   No, the hyper-violent `90s did not invent this kind of horror.
Back in the far-off good-old days when apartheid was an American
virtue, sanctified every school day with prayer, such incidents
were commonplace. And where were the rebels?

   Back then, we're assured, morality and family values were
bedrock standards.

   The fact is, and history is our judge, even before cable
television, people found ways to tune out -- to injustices that
took place in this country, to suffering, to violence, to bigotry.

   Tell us the details.

   John Young is opinion editor of the Waco Tribune-Herald.

   ENDIT

   Story Filed By The WACO TRIBUNE-HERALD

   AP-NY-06-10-98 1754E

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    RFK: A picture of the pain
 &HT;    By John Young
 &HT;    c.1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   WACO, Texas _ `` Tell me every detail for I've got to know it
all. And do you have a picture of the pain?''

   These are the lyrics that protest singer Phil Ochs sang to Bobby
Kennedy at the back of a shuttle flight one night in Washington.
They're contained in Ochs' ``The Crucifixion'', which had been
written about many martyrs but was inspired when John Kennedy
became one.

   Every detail. Must we? A three-hour special on the Discovery
Channel, ``Robert Kennedy: A Memoir,'' reminds us how valuable
details can be. (Next broadcast: Sunday, 2 p.m. CST)

   Based on Jack Newfield's book by the same name, the documentary
depicts Kennedy's journey: from a corporal of Sen. Joseph McCarthy,
domino theorist on Vietnam and inert bystander on racial inequality
to an activist contrarian on each.

   In that tortured public journey is the story of an era, from the
red-baiting of the '50s to the bloodletting of the '60s.

   Thirty years after his assassination, a retrospective of this
sort helps to remind us what serious business the nation was
facing, and that people of courage did step to the plate.

   In these days when Jay Leno is our Walter Winchell and Letterman
is our Cronkite, it is easy to look back to the spirit of that time
as a wisp of marijuana smoke and a sex romp in the weeds. It is
politically profitable to denounce the sins of that rebelling
generation, while downplaying the sins against which all the
rebelling was going on.

   The fitting fact is that Robert Kennedy was of both generations.
Some of the weight he carried in a life of discovery was the
remorse of one who realized he'd been an accomplice to much that he
came to denounce.

   Civil rights leaders recount their initial disdain and distrust
for this man who, when first dealing with them, was running a
molasses-quick Justice Department on such things as equal
protection of the law. But they found that face-to-face meetings
changed impressions dramatically -- both for them and Kennedy.

   As a social conscience, Kennedy had many growth spurts.
Generally each had to do with face-to-face encounters -- with coal
miners, with migrant workers, with poor children of many stripes.

   In a scene that was so eerie as to be unearthly, it was Kennedy
who informed a heavily black campaign crowd that Martin Luther King
Jr. had been slain. From his text and tone, Kennedy conveyed to
millions that night the feeling that a fallen leader's torch had
not hit the ground.

   Tell us the details, sang the folk singer. We need to know them
all. In Waco a bit of history, about far-off lynchings in the town
square, has been resurrected lately. Must we know? Of course we
must. It may not be us, but it is part of what has made us.

   A black man is dragged to his death in Jasper, Texas, at the
bumper of a car. It's Page 1 news across the country, and that's
good. Not a whole generation ago such a murder might not have made
the news at all.

   No, the hyper-violent `90s did not invent this kind of horror.
Back in the far-off good-old days when apartheid was an American
virtue, sanctified every school day with prayer, such incidents
were commonplace. And where were the rebels?

   Back then, we're assured, morality and family values were
bedrock standards.

   The fact is, and history is our judge, even before cable
television, people found ways to tune out -- to injustices that
took place in this country, to suffering, to violence, to bigotry.

   Tell us the details.

   John Young is opinion editor of the Waco Tribune-Herald.

   ENDIT

   Story Filed By The WACO TRIBUNE-HERALD

   AP-NY-06-10-98 1754E

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0061 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 11:22 ',
			header: '
A4471 &Cx1f; tad-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BUNCO12-COX     06-11 0644
',
			slug: ' BC-BUNCO12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   Kim can't get over the spread. Carole's made stuffed mushrooms,
peanut butter brownies, basil-and-tomato pie. Who has time for all
of this cooking?

   Carole says she doesn't mind the cooking. What she's tired of is
teenage attitude. Just once, she'd like to be able to read her Mary
Higgins' mystery without any interruptions.

   Linda and Traci are nearby, making up their ``summer calendar:''
Let's see, there's McDonald's, the pool, the beach _ where else can
you take the kids when school's out?

   The women say the days pass quickly in their quiet Wellington
neighborhood, what with husbands and children and homes and jobs.

   But once a month, it's bunco night.

   And bunco night is all their own.

   The dice game, which dates to 18th century England, is becoming
more and more popular around the country. But guys, hold your bets
and put away your stogies: This particular gated-community gig is
for ``the girls'' only.

   ``Guys!'' shouts Carole Williams, 38, a stay-at-home mother of
three who sells insurance on the side. ``We can say whatever we
want because there's no kids in this house! No husbands!''

   Williams, Kim Lavornga, Linda Motzer, Traci Picknell and four
other neighbors, all thirtysomething moms, have been playing bunco
together since January.

   ``There are so many transients here, so many people here from
different states,'' says Picknell, who belonged to a bunco group in
her Ohio hometown and introduced the game to her new neighbors when
she moved to Wellington last year. ``This is a way for people to
meet. Between work and kids and stuff, this is the only time to sit
and talk.''

   But why bunco?

   Perhaps in a high-tech world _ where you can shop, work, gossip
and teach your kids to count in Spanish without dropping the
computer mouse _ people need an excuse to meet face-to-face.

   Plus, it's easier than bridge.

   Like meatloaf recipes passed from neighbor to neighbor, bunco
rules vary slightly depending on who's playing. (Rules can be found
on the World Bunco Association's Web site, www.worldbunco.com.)
Suffice it to say the game is so simple, a few rolls of the dice
won't distract you from the true objective of the gathering:
gossip.

   The World Bunco Association attributes the bunco revival to a
return to ``traditional values.'' Indeed, this dice game _ all the
rage in the prohibition era, when bunco games flourished at
speak-easies, only to be busted by ``bunco squads'' _ is so
wholesome in its modern incarnation that no bets are wagered; at
the end of the game, everyone gets a prize paid for by member dues.

   For the Wellington bunch, this warm-and-fuzzy cousin of craps
has inspired another way to seal their friendship: Each bunco buddy
has a ``secret pal.'' Throughout the year, they send their pal
little anonymous presents, often adding a ``secret pal'' card
(Hallmark makes one for almost every holiday.)

   On Valentine's Day, Leslie Campbell got a pair of socks with
hearts on them from her secret pal. Kim got a bottle of lotion with
a note: ``pamper yourself.'' Linda found a ``cute book'' on love
and marriage on her doorstep with CD of romantic music.

   ``You know somebody is thinking about you,'' says Linda.

   And you know someone is willing to help you out in a pinch.
Indeed, they say they have bunco to thank for giving them something
often missing from South Florida suburbia: a sense of community.

   The greatest fear, says Carole, is ``that our husbands would get
transferred and we'd have to move away.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    PBP-BUNCO-GAME
 &HT;    BUNCO IS BACK, BUT THIS TIME THE OBJECT IS GOSSIP, NOT GAMBLING
 &HT;    ATTN: COX -- FEATURES EDITORS
 &HT;    For Wednesday, June 10, 1998
 &HT;    Photos available
 &HT;    By Dale Fuchs
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   Kim can't get over the spread. Carole's made stuffed mushrooms,
peanut butter brownies, basil-and-tomato pie. Who has time for all
of this cooking?

   Carole says she doesn't mind the cooking. What she's tired of is
teenage attitude. Just once, she'd like to be able to read her Mary
Higgins' mystery without any interruptions.

   Linda and Traci are nearby, making up their ``summer calendar:''
Let's see, there's McDonald's, the pool, the beach _ where else can
you take the kids when school's out?

   The women say the days pass quickly in their quiet Wellington
neighborhood, what with husbands and children and homes and jobs.

   But once a month, it's bunco night.

   And bunco night is all their own.

   The dice game, which dates to 18th century England, is becoming
more and more popular around the country. But guys, hold your bets
and put away your stogies: This particular gated-community gig is
for ``the girls'' only.

   ``Guys!'' shouts Carole Williams, 38, a stay-at-home mother of
three who sells insurance on the side. ``We can say whatever we
want because there's no kids in this house! No husbands!''

   Williams, Kim Lavornga, Linda Motzer, Traci Picknell and four
other neighbors, all thirtysomething moms, have been playing bunco
together since January.

   ``There are so many transients here, so many people here from
different states,'' says Picknell, who belonged to a bunco group in
her Ohio hometown and introduced the game to her new neighbors when
she moved to Wellington last year. ``This is a way for people to
meet. Between work and kids and stuff, this is the only time to sit
and talk.''

   But why bunco?

   Perhaps in a high-tech world _ where you can shop, work, gossip
and teach your kids to count in Spanish without dropping the
computer mouse _ people need an excuse to meet face-to-face.

   Plus, it's easier than bridge.

   Like meatloaf recipes passed from neighbor to neighbor, bunco
rules vary slightly depending on who's playing. (Rules can be found
on the World Bunco Association's Web site, www.worldbunco.com.)
Suffice it to say the game is so simple, a few rolls of the dice
won't distract you from the true objective of the gathering:
gossip.

   The World Bunco Association attributes the bunco revival to a
return to ``traditional values.'' Indeed, this dice game _ all the
rage in the prohibition era, when bunco games flourished at
speak-easies, only to be busted by ``bunco squads'' _ is so
wholesome in its modern incarnation that no bets are wagered; at
the end of the game, everyone gets a prize paid for by member dues.

   For the Wellington bunch, this warm-and-fuzzy cousin of craps
has inspired another way to seal their friendship: Each bunco buddy
has a ``secret pal.'' Throughout the year, they send their pal
little anonymous presents, often adding a ``secret pal'' card
(Hallmark makes one for almost every holiday.)

   On Valentine's Day, Leslie Campbell got a pair of socks with
hearts on them from her secret pal. Kim got a bottle of lotion with
a note: ``pamper yourself.'' Linda found a ``cute book'' on love
and marriage on her doorstep with CD of romantic music.

   ``You know somebody is thinking about you,'' says Linda.

   And you know someone is willing to help you out in a pinch.
Indeed, they say they have bunco to thank for giving them something
often missing from South Florida suburbia: a sense of community.

   The greatest fear, says Carole, is ``that our husbands would get
transferred and we'd have to move away.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0062 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 11:22 ',
			header: '
A4472 &Cx1f; tad-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EYMAN-BOOKREVIEW12-CO     06-11 0845
',
			slug: ' BC-EYMAN-BOOKREVIEW12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   LONG LIFE, by Nigel Nicolson. Putnam; 294 pages; $29.95.

   Nigel Nicolson is one of those lucky men who has had not one
life, but four or five.

   The child of Vita Sackville-West and Harold Nicolson, he had a
childhood which seems to have been a more or less enchanted
Edwardian garden. Then came the war, with Nicolson serving with
distinction in Italy and Africa, and working up a healthy loathing
for Field Marshall Montgomery in the process. That was followed by
concurrent careers as an MP and co-founder of the now-eminent
English publishers Weidenfeld &AMP; Nicolson.

   Readers looking for salacious detail on the baroque pairings of
his parents will be disappointed; Vita Sackville-West was one of
the great loves of Virginia Woolf's life, while Harold Nicolson
cavorted with a variety of men. But Nicolson has already written
about that anomalous, enduring marriage in his book ``Portrait of a
Marriage,'' and offers only little lagniappes here.

   He didn't really know his mother very well because of what seems
to have been a bad case of mutual shyness, but he found Virginia
Woolf ``languid, with spurts of fire and fun.'' Woolf once told him
that he should keep a diary, because ``nothing has really happened
until you have described it.''

   Vita was scared of Woolf, as well she should have been. (Harold
Nicolson told his wife to be very careful about her lover, that
sleeping with Woolf was like ``smoking over an open petrol tank.'')

   When it comes to his own life, Nicolson maintains an attitude of
abject modesty. Weidenfeld &AMP; Nicolson ramped up to speed slowly,
but attained a measure of security with the publication of
Nabokov's ``Lolita.'' Although it had already been published in
America, England's obscenity laws were considerably more stringent,
and whether the book would ever appear in England hung fire until
nearly the last moment.

   Nicolson doesn't cover himself with the mantle of a glorious
crusader for press freedom; actually, ``Lolita'' made him
uncomfortable. ``I had not read the book before the contract was
signed, and when I did I was shocked by it. It seemed to me
saturated in lust.''

   Not surprisingly, his father loathed the book, as did his
mother. However, his firm had signed a contract, and an English
gentleman abides by his word, so Weidenfeld &AMP; Nicolson saw it
through.

   For American readers, Nicolson's time in publishing is probably
the heart of his book. A companionable man, he sighs that the most
successful authors were the least troublesome. There are wonderful
vignettes here: Stanley Unwin giving the shiny-eyed young
publishers his best advice about the business: ``No book on South
America will ever sell. Any book on Mary, Queen of Scots will
always sell. If you understand that, you are publishers.''

   Nicolson listened carefully; Antonia Fraser's biography of Mary,
Queen of Scots proved to be one of Weidenfeld &AMP; Nicolson's greatest
hits.

   ``Long Life'' has much to recommend it. Within the scope of his
reserved, Brahmin temperament, Nicolson seems to be an honest man.
He doesn't attempt to cover up his teenage infatuation with fascism
_ just what was in the water in England in 1936? _ which thankfully
disappeared at Oxford.

   He also goes out of his way to tell a story about a voter
upbraiding him during an election campaign. What, she asked, was
the price of butter? Nicolson replied that he didn't have the
vaguest idea. Why then, the woman wanted to know, should she
support him if he was so oblivious to the realities that affected
millions of English homes?

   Many _ most? _ politicians could have the identical thing happen
to them; few would discuss the episode in their memoirs.

   Nicolson loads his book with telling vignettes of the rich and
famous: Charles Lindbergh, invariably referring to his flight
across the Atlantic as ``My trip to Purris''; Charlie Chaplin
telling jokes to the Bloomsbury group; T.E. Lawrence coming to
dinner.

   Nicolson is every inch the Englishman, shy of intimacy. One of
the most touching moments in his book is the caption of a
photograph of his first and only wife, who strongly resembles the
young Vanessa Redgrave: ``Looking at this photograph, I wonder how
I could ever have ceased to love her.''

   Alas, he did, doesn't quite know why, but struggles manfully to
provide the reader and himself with an answer.

   One word of warning: ``Long Life'' is parochial, that is to say
quintessentially English; pages are devoted to things like the Suez
crisis, which were profoundly upsetting to the English and to no
one else, as well as other local ephemera that served as defining
issues during Nicolson's terms in Parliament.

   As a result, ``Long Life'' is a book for the ardent
Bloomsbury-ite, the Anglophile, and the literary historian, but
probably not the general reader.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    BOOK REVIEW: Englishman's bio strictly for Anglophiles
 &HT;    By Scott Eyman
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   LONG LIFE, by Nigel Nicolson. Putnam; 294 pages; $29.95.

   Nigel Nicolson is one of those lucky men who has had not one
life, but four or five.

   The child of Vita Sackville-West and Harold Nicolson, he had a
childhood which seems to have been a more or less enchanted
Edwardian garden. Then came the war, with Nicolson serving with
distinction in Italy and Africa, and working up a healthy loathing
for Field Marshall Montgomery in the process. That was followed by
concurrent careers as an MP and co-founder of the now-eminent
English publishers Weidenfeld &AMP; Nicolson.

   Readers looking for salacious detail on the baroque pairings of
his parents will be disappointed; Vita Sackville-West was one of
the great loves of Virginia Woolf's life, while Harold Nicolson
cavorted with a variety of men. But Nicolson has already written
about that anomalous, enduring marriage in his book ``Portrait of a
Marriage,'' and offers only little lagniappes here.

   He didn't really know his mother very well because of what seems
to have been a bad case of mutual shyness, but he found Virginia
Woolf ``languid, with spurts of fire and fun.'' Woolf once told him
that he should keep a diary, because ``nothing has really happened
until you have described it.''

   Vita was scared of Woolf, as well she should have been. (Harold
Nicolson told his wife to be very careful about her lover, that
sleeping with Woolf was like ``smoking over an open petrol tank.'')

   When it comes to his own life, Nicolson maintains an attitude of
abject modesty. Weidenfeld &AMP; Nicolson ramped up to speed slowly,
but attained a measure of security with the publication of
Nabokov's ``Lolita.'' Although it had already been published in
America, England's obscenity laws were considerably more stringent,
and whether the book would ever appear in England hung fire until
nearly the last moment.

   Nicolson doesn't cover himself with the mantle of a glorious
crusader for press freedom; actually, ``Lolita'' made him
uncomfortable. ``I had not read the book before the contract was
signed, and when I did I was shocked by it. It seemed to me
saturated in lust.''

   Not surprisingly, his father loathed the book, as did his
mother. However, his firm had signed a contract, and an English
gentleman abides by his word, so Weidenfeld &AMP; Nicolson saw it
through.

   For American readers, Nicolson's time in publishing is probably
the heart of his book. A companionable man, he sighs that the most
successful authors were the least troublesome. There are wonderful
vignettes here: Stanley Unwin giving the shiny-eyed young
publishers his best advice about the business: ``No book on South
America will ever sell. Any book on Mary, Queen of Scots will
always sell. If you understand that, you are publishers.''

   Nicolson listened carefully; Antonia Fraser's biography of Mary,
Queen of Scots proved to be one of Weidenfeld &AMP; Nicolson's greatest
hits.

   ``Long Life'' has much to recommend it. Within the scope of his
reserved, Brahmin temperament, Nicolson seems to be an honest man.
He doesn't attempt to cover up his teenage infatuation with fascism
_ just what was in the water in England in 1936? _ which thankfully
disappeared at Oxford.

   He also goes out of his way to tell a story about a voter
upbraiding him during an election campaign. What, she asked, was
the price of butter? Nicolson replied that he didn't have the
vaguest idea. Why then, the woman wanted to know, should she
support him if he was so oblivious to the realities that affected
millions of English homes?

   Many _ most? _ politicians could have the identical thing happen
to them; few would discuss the episode in their memoirs.

   Nicolson loads his book with telling vignettes of the rich and
famous: Charles Lindbergh, invariably referring to his flight
across the Atlantic as ``My trip to Purris''; Charlie Chaplin
telling jokes to the Bloomsbury group; T.E. Lawrence coming to
dinner.

   Nicolson is every inch the Englishman, shy of intimacy. One of
the most touching moments in his book is the caption of a
photograph of his first and only wife, who strongly resembles the
young Vanessa Redgrave: ``Looking at this photograph, I wonder how
I could ever have ceased to love her.''

   Alas, he did, doesn't quite know why, but struggles manfully to
provide the reader and himself with an answer.

   One word of warning: ``Long Life'' is parochial, that is to say
quintessentially English; pages are devoted to things like the Suez
crisis, which were profoundly upsetting to the English and to no
one else, as well as other local ephemera that served as defining
issues during Nicolson's terms in Parliament.

   As a result, ``Long Life'' is a book for the ardent
Bloomsbury-ite, the Anglophile, and the literary historian, but
probably not the general reader.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0063 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 11:22 ',
			header: '
A4473 &Cx1f; tad-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FAGAN-TICKETSCAM12-CO     06-11 1128
',
			slug: ' BC-FAGAN-TICKETSCAM12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   MEMPHIS, Tenn. _ Federal agents are trying to determine whether
Stephen Fagan, in his final days as Dr. William Martin, scammed a
Memphis travel agent out of $50,000 worth of airline tickets.

   A man who called himself Dr. Bill Martin, using a phony Winter
Park address, bought more than 70 tickets by telephone with stolen
American Express and Visa numbers, Secret Service agents said.
Nearly all of the tickets were for Los Angeles departures, for
mostly one-way trips, bought over a five-week period this spring.

   The final purchases came on April 12, four days before Fagan was
arrested and charged with kidnapping his daughters in Massachusetts
19 years ago. The man calling himself Dr. Martin bought the tickets
over several weeks with about 20 different credit card numbers,
mainly from card owners living in South Florida, a spokesman for
Ideal Travel Concepts in Memphis said.

   The caller bought electronic tickets, meaning airlines did not
send tickets to a specific address. Passengers simply picked up
their boarding passes at the gate.

   He also spoke with a strong Boston accent, as does Fagan, who
grew up in East Boston, travel agents said. After watching Fagan in
a recent national television appearance, several agency sales
people positively identified Fagan's voice as that of the Dr.
Martin who bought the airline tickets.

   One sales person has already given a statement to federal
investigators and others are to meet with Secret Service agents
this week, the spokesman said.

   ``I emphatically and categorically deny any knowledge whatsoever
concerning these matters,'' Fagan said in a brief telephone
interview Wednesday. ``I've requested that my attorneys David Roth
and Richard Egbert fully cooperate with all appropriate authorities
in order to expedite and conclusively establish my total and
complete innocence.''

   Secret Service agents, who investigate securities and credit
card fraud, emphasized it's too soon to call Fagan a suspect, but
said two weeks ago they are looking at several connections between
Fagan and the Dr. Martin who bought the tickets.

   Most of the stolen credit card numbers have extremely high
limits and many are based in South Florida _ exactly the kind of
social circle Fagan traveled in as Dr. William Martin.

   Also, the man calling himself Dr. Martin and another caller who
identified himself as Dr. Archie Green both gave the same Winter
Park address and had a strong Boston accent. An Ideal Travel
salesman who talked to Drs. Martin and Green more than a dozen
times said two weeks ago he believes they were the same person.

   When questioned by the travel agent, Dr. Green said he and Dr.
Martin were just friends with similar voices.

   The man calling himself Dr. Martin made most of the phone calls
_ several dozen _ and bought the tickets from several salespeople.
Travel agency officials initially contacted Massachusetts
investigators after seeing the Fagan-Martin story on television and
in the Memphis newspapers.

   After watching Fagan during an interview last week on ABC's
Prime Time, the salespeople all identified the caller's voice as
that of Fagan, the travel agency spokesman said.

   ``We are reviewing the information, and getting more information
from the travel agency,'' said Bruce Townsend, the assistant
special agent-in-charge of the Memphis office. ``It is still too
early to say we have a full-blown investigation, but yes, we are
looking into this Dr. William Martin. There are a lot of things
that catch your attention.

   ``We're making some progress, but it's slow going and we still
have a lot of work to do,'' Townsend said. ``In general, these are
very difficult cases to prove.''

   Roth said it's absurd to think his client _ who still goes by
Bill Martin _ ``would use his own name in regard to illegal
activity.''

   Fagan has pleaded not guilty to kidnapping charges in
Massachusetts, though he admits he took his daughters, then 5 and
2, during a custody fight, fled to Florida and changed their names
in 1979. Rachael Martin, 23, works for a charitable foundation in
New York, while Lisa Martin, 21, attends the University of Southern
California.

   Two years after taking his daughters, Fagan wound up in Palm
Beach County, where he slowly concocted a fictitious life as Dr.
William Martin, a Palm Beach socialite and philanthropist.

   As Martin, Fagan used at least four phony Social Security
numbers, traveled on a fake passport and lived a luxurious
lifestyle while not reporting any income for two decades, according
to Assistant District Attorney Lynn Rooney in Massachusetts.

   The U.S. State Department, Social Security Administration and
Internal Revenue Service are investigating Fagan for possible
passport, Social Security and IRS violations, spokesmen from those
agencies said this week.

   American Express also is investigating the airline ticket theft,
company spokeswoman Nancy Muller said. She would not comment
further.

   Agent Townsend and credit card company investigators said it is
difficult to prosecute telephone credit card fraud because it is
nearly impossible to prove who bought something by telephone.

   But investigators have an edge in this case: All they have to do
is find the 70 people on the agency passenger lists and ask where
they got their airline tickets. Whoever bought the tickets either
resold them or gave them away to the passengers, investigators
believe.

   Since federal law requires all passengers to show
identification, it is unlikely all 70 would have shown false IDs at
the airports, investigators said.

   However, the electronic tickets include addresses for the buyer,
not the passenger, making it much harder to track them.

   Because the tickets originated in Los Angeles, where Lisa went
to college, and were mainly one-way, investigators want to know if
someone sold or gave the tickets to college students traveling
one-way at the end of the school year.

   Investigators believe the man calling himself Dr. Martin used
stolen credit card numbers, perhaps off receipts from restaurants,
hotels or retailers. Since the cards remain with the owners, they
are not reported stolen, giving a thief several weeks before the
charges show up on customers' bills.

   American Express investigators would not comment on specifics of
this case, but said typically they will compare credit card
purchases, hoping to find a common vendor. That may mean someone
supplied the Dr. Martin on the phone with the card numbers.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Authorities looking for links between Fagan, $50,000 ticket
fraud
 &HT;    By John Holland
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   MEMPHIS, Tenn. _ Federal agents are trying to determine whether
Stephen Fagan, in his final days as Dr. William Martin, scammed a
Memphis travel agent out of $50,000 worth of airline tickets.

   A man who called himself Dr. Bill Martin, using a phony Winter
Park address, bought more than 70 tickets by telephone with stolen
American Express and Visa numbers, Secret Service agents said.
Nearly all of the tickets were for Los Angeles departures, for
mostly one-way trips, bought over a five-week period this spring.

   The final purchases came on April 12, four days before Fagan was
arrested and charged with kidnapping his daughters in Massachusetts
19 years ago. The man calling himself Dr. Martin bought the tickets
over several weeks with about 20 different credit card numbers,
mainly from card owners living in South Florida, a spokesman for
Ideal Travel Concepts in Memphis said.

   The caller bought electronic tickets, meaning airlines did not
send tickets to a specific address. Passengers simply picked up
their boarding passes at the gate.

   He also spoke with a strong Boston accent, as does Fagan, who
grew up in East Boston, travel agents said. After watching Fagan in
a recent national television appearance, several agency sales
people positively identified Fagan's voice as that of the Dr.
Martin who bought the airline tickets.

   One sales person has already given a statement to federal
investigators and others are to meet with Secret Service agents
this week, the spokesman said.

   ``I emphatically and categorically deny any knowledge whatsoever
concerning these matters,'' Fagan said in a brief telephone
interview Wednesday. ``I've requested that my attorneys David Roth
and Richard Egbert fully cooperate with all appropriate authorities
in order to expedite and conclusively establish my total and
complete innocence.''

   Secret Service agents, who investigate securities and credit
card fraud, emphasized it's too soon to call Fagan a suspect, but
said two weeks ago they are looking at several connections between
Fagan and the Dr. Martin who bought the tickets.

   Most of the stolen credit card numbers have extremely high
limits and many are based in South Florida _ exactly the kind of
social circle Fagan traveled in as Dr. William Martin.

   Also, the man calling himself Dr. Martin and another caller who
identified himself as Dr. Archie Green both gave the same Winter
Park address and had a strong Boston accent. An Ideal Travel
salesman who talked to Drs. Martin and Green more than a dozen
times said two weeks ago he believes they were the same person.

   When questioned by the travel agent, Dr. Green said he and Dr.
Martin were just friends with similar voices.

   The man calling himself Dr. Martin made most of the phone calls
_ several dozen _ and bought the tickets from several salespeople.
Travel agency officials initially contacted Massachusetts
investigators after seeing the Fagan-Martin story on television and
in the Memphis newspapers.

   After watching Fagan during an interview last week on ABC's
Prime Time, the salespeople all identified the caller's voice as
that of Fagan, the travel agency spokesman said.

   ``We are reviewing the information, and getting more information
from the travel agency,'' said Bruce Townsend, the assistant
special agent-in-charge of the Memphis office. ``It is still too
early to say we have a full-blown investigation, but yes, we are
looking into this Dr. William Martin. There are a lot of things
that catch your attention.

   ``We're making some progress, but it's slow going and we still
have a lot of work to do,'' Townsend said. ``In general, these are
very difficult cases to prove.''

   Roth said it's absurd to think his client _ who still goes by
Bill Martin _ ``would use his own name in regard to illegal
activity.''

   Fagan has pleaded not guilty to kidnapping charges in
Massachusetts, though he admits he took his daughters, then 5 and
2, during a custody fight, fled to Florida and changed their names
in 1979. Rachael Martin, 23, works for a charitable foundation in
New York, while Lisa Martin, 21, attends the University of Southern
California.

   Two years after taking his daughters, Fagan wound up in Palm
Beach County, where he slowly concocted a fictitious life as Dr.
William Martin, a Palm Beach socialite and philanthropist.

   As Martin, Fagan used at least four phony Social Security
numbers, traveled on a fake passport and lived a luxurious
lifestyle while not reporting any income for two decades, according
to Assistant District Attorney Lynn Rooney in Massachusetts.

   The U.S. State Department, Social Security Administration and
Internal Revenue Service are investigating Fagan for possible
passport, Social Security and IRS violations, spokesmen from those
agencies said this week.

   American Express also is investigating the airline ticket theft,
company spokeswoman Nancy Muller said. She would not comment
further.

   Agent Townsend and credit card company investigators said it is
difficult to prosecute telephone credit card fraud because it is
nearly impossible to prove who bought something by telephone.

   But investigators have an edge in this case: All they have to do
is find the 70 people on the agency passenger lists and ask where
they got their airline tickets. Whoever bought the tickets either
resold them or gave them away to the passengers, investigators
believe.

   Since federal law requires all passengers to show
identification, it is unlikely all 70 would have shown false IDs at
the airports, investigators said.

   However, the electronic tickets include addresses for the buyer,
not the passenger, making it much harder to track them.

   Because the tickets originated in Los Angeles, where Lisa went
to college, and were mainly one-way, investigators want to know if
someone sold or gave the tickets to college students traveling
one-way at the end of the school year.

   Investigators believe the man calling himself Dr. Martin used
stolen credit card numbers, perhaps off receipts from restaurants,
hotels or retailers. Since the cards remain with the owners, they
are not reported stolen, giving a thief several weeks before the
charges show up on customers' bills.

   American Express investigators would not comment on specifics of
this case, but said typically they will compare credit card
purchases, hoping to find a common vendor. That may mean someone
supplied the Dr. Martin on the phone with the card numbers.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0064 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 11:23 ',
			header: '
A4474 &Cx1f; tad-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWJERSEY-BETTER12-CO     06-11 0573
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWJERSEY-BETTER12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. _ Some years back, they made a movie,
``Escape From New York.'' It was one of those nightmarish visions
of an anarchic future filled with violent lunatics.

   If you ask me, it could have been a documentary.

   All the while I was growing up in New Jersey, I heard the daily
beat of propaganda drummed out by the television stations and big
newspapers from across the river: New York is the greatest city in
the world, keeper of the nation's intellectual and financial
flames, a city so elegant, so intelligent, that the world stands in
awe.

   Except, I knew, for millions of people standing on the New
Jersey bank of the Hudson River shouting, ``Thank God I got out of
there!''

   That's the irony in New Jersey fighting over Ellis Island,
symbol of immigrant hopes. It seems like sometime in the late
1950s, there must have been a general, multilingual announcement:

   Huddled masses, please remain in Manhattan. Middle-class
taxpayers yearning to breathe chemical fumes, the bus for New
Jersey leaves in five minutes.

   Half the kids I went to school with were born in New York, or
their parents were. Following soon after came a good deal of New
York's industry, society and sports teams.

   As a result, New Jersey's already abundant store of man-made and
natural attractions swelled to rival its more-prestigious
neighbor's. Here's how I figure the score:

   New York has the Metropolitan Opera, the New York City Ballet
and Carnegie Hall, and it can keep them.

   It also has the Cross Bronx and Long Island expressways, where
you could spend a lifetime in traffic, and 42nd Street, where you
could lose one.

   Plus, it still has the Knicks, the Yankees and the Mets.

   New Jersey, on the other hand, has the Jersey Shore, known
locally as Downashore (as in: ``We're goin' Downashore'').

   It also has the New Jersey Turnpike, featuring the Vince
Lombardi rest area, and the Garden State Parkway, featuring the
world's most densely packed series of toll booths.

   Plus, the Giants, the Jets and the Nets.

   I suppose you could call it even, but I don't.

   Despite the gibes of comics a half-notch above whoopee-cushion
level, my former state has always been steeped in history and
culture: from the Battle of Trenton to Alexander Hamilton's fatal
duel to Woodrow Wilson to Thomas Edison to Jack Nicholson to Bruce
Springsteen.

   New Jersey has lent its name to a great battleship, a great
fighter (Jersey Joe Walcott), and a popular dance (the Jersey
Bounce).

   The Hindenburg crashed there. Lyndon Johnson was nominated for
president. Jack Kerouac hit the road. Abbtt and Costello were both
born there. Jimmy Hoffa may well be buried there.

   It's a state that has produced many great characters who eclipse
New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani in both humor and goodwill. On
hearing that the Supreme Court backed New Jersey's claim to Ellis
Island, Giuliani complained that his father did not leave Italy
declaring, ``I'm going to New Jersey.''

   I'm quite certain that when my own father passed through the
island's gates in 1928, he had absolutely no interest in state or
municipal boundaries.

   He lived the next 60 years in New Jersey, quite happily.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Why New Jersey is better than New York
 &HT;    By Douglas Kalajian
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. _ Some years back, they made a movie,
``Escape From New York.'' It was one of those nightmarish visions
of an anarchic future filled with violent lunatics.

   If you ask me, it could have been a documentary.

   All the while I was growing up in New Jersey, I heard the daily
beat of propaganda drummed out by the television stations and big
newspapers from across the river: New York is the greatest city in
the world, keeper of the nation's intellectual and financial
flames, a city so elegant, so intelligent, that the world stands in
awe.

   Except, I knew, for millions of people standing on the New
Jersey bank of the Hudson River shouting, ``Thank God I got out of
there!''

   That's the irony in New Jersey fighting over Ellis Island,
symbol of immigrant hopes. It seems like sometime in the late
1950s, there must have been a general, multilingual announcement:

   Huddled masses, please remain in Manhattan. Middle-class
taxpayers yearning to breathe chemical fumes, the bus for New
Jersey leaves in five minutes.

   Half the kids I went to school with were born in New York, or
their parents were. Following soon after came a good deal of New
York's industry, society and sports teams.

   As a result, New Jersey's already abundant store of man-made and
natural attractions swelled to rival its more-prestigious
neighbor's. Here's how I figure the score:

   New York has the Metropolitan Opera, the New York City Ballet
and Carnegie Hall, and it can keep them.

   It also has the Cross Bronx and Long Island expressways, where
you could spend a lifetime in traffic, and 42nd Street, where you
could lose one.

   Plus, it still has the Knicks, the Yankees and the Mets.

   New Jersey, on the other hand, has the Jersey Shore, known
locally as Downashore (as in: ``We're goin' Downashore'').

   It also has the New Jersey Turnpike, featuring the Vince
Lombardi rest area, and the Garden State Parkway, featuring the
world's most densely packed series of toll booths.

   Plus, the Giants, the Jets and the Nets.

   I suppose you could call it even, but I don't.

   Despite the gibes of comics a half-notch above whoopee-cushion
level, my former state has always been steeped in history and
culture: from the Battle of Trenton to Alexander Hamilton's fatal
duel to Woodrow Wilson to Thomas Edison to Jack Nicholson to Bruce
Springsteen.

   New Jersey has lent its name to a great battleship, a great
fighter (Jersey Joe Walcott), and a popular dance (the Jersey
Bounce).

   The Hindenburg crashed there. Lyndon Johnson was nominated for
president. Jack Kerouac hit the road. Abbtt and Costello were both
born there. Jimmy Hoffa may well be buried there.

   It's a state that has produced many great characters who eclipse
New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani in both humor and goodwill. On
hearing that the Supreme Court backed New Jersey's claim to Ellis
Island, Giuliani complained that his father did not leave Italy
declaring, ``I'm going to New Jersey.''

   I'm quite certain that when my own father passed through the
island's gates in 1928, he had absolutely no interest in state or
municipal boundaries.

   He lived the next 60 years in New Jersey, quite happily.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0065 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 11:23 ',
			header: '
A4475 &Cx1f; tad-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NEWYORK-BETTER12-COX     06-11 0460
',
			slug: ' BC-NEWYORK-BETTER12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. _ As a native New Yorker, my knowledge of
New Jersey was largely derived from the trips my family took to the
cemetery where my maternal grandfather was buried.

   Thus, my view of the state that borders the Big Apple can be
boiled down as follows: New Jersey _ a great place to die, a lousy
place to live.

   With all due respect to my colleague Doug Kalajian, comparing
New York to New Jersey is a little like comparing the '97 Florida
Marlins to the '98 version of the team. One's a world champ, the
other bush-league.

   Sure, New Jersey has a few things that used to belong to New
York. Like the Giants, Jets and Nets, teams that play in an
industrial swamp known as the Meadow- Big Apple has it all:
Broadway, skyscrapers NEW YORK lands. And now the state can lay
claim to Ellis Island, a tree stump of property that admittedly has
a decent museum.

   But if you want to look at the big picture, as we New Yorkers
like to say: Fuhgeddaboutit.

   New York's got skyscrapers that extend elegantly to the clouds.
New Jersey's got a bunch of smokestacks.

   New York's got Lord &AMP; Taylor, Saks Fifth Avenue and Bergdorf
Goodman. New Jersey's got the Paramus Mall.

   And, yes, New York's got the Metropolitan Opera, New York City
Ballet and Carnegie Hall. (Not to mention a certain stretch of
theaters known as Broadway.) New Jersey's got, well, the New Jersey
Symphony.

   As for history, what hasn't happened in New York: Wall Street
crashes, World Series victories, the birth of nearly every fashion
trend since the little black dress, the death of civility (I'll
trade manners for a corned-beef sandwich from the Carnegie Deli any
day of the week).

   And, dear Doug, did you actually bring up the Jersey Shore _
that narrow stretch of hypodermic needle-filled sand _ as a
positive? I've seen potholes on Ninth Avenue with more charm.

   True, a bunch of New Yorkers in search of the trappings of
suburbia inevitably end up on the wrong side of the Hudson. For the
benefit of owning a four-bedroom Colonial with a leaky roof, they
miss out on the sensory overload that is life in the World's
Greatest City. Or they experience it only as commuters _ and inhale
a lifetime's worth of cancer-inducing bus exhaust every afternoon
on line at the Port Authority.

   And yet ask these proud Jersey residents where they're from and
they'll all say the same thing: the New York area. When was the
last time you heard a New Yorker say he was from the New Jersey
area?

   But, as I say, it's a great place to die.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Why New York is better than New Jersey
 &HT;    By Charles Passy
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. _ As a native New Yorker, my knowledge of
New Jersey was largely derived from the trips my family took to the
cemetery where my maternal grandfather was buried.

   Thus, my view of the state that borders the Big Apple can be
boiled down as follows: New Jersey _ a great place to die, a lousy
place to live.

   With all due respect to my colleague Doug Kalajian, comparing
New York to New Jersey is a little like comparing the '97 Florida
Marlins to the '98 version of the team. One's a world champ, the
other bush-league.

   Sure, New Jersey has a few things that used to belong to New
York. Like the Giants, Jets and Nets, teams that play in an
industrial swamp known as the Meadow- Big Apple has it all:
Broadway, skyscrapers NEW YORK lands. And now the state can lay
claim to Ellis Island, a tree stump of property that admittedly has
a decent museum.

   But if you want to look at the big picture, as we New Yorkers
like to say: Fuhgeddaboutit.

   New York's got skyscrapers that extend elegantly to the clouds.
New Jersey's got a bunch of smokestacks.

   New York's got Lord &AMP; Taylor, Saks Fifth Avenue and Bergdorf
Goodman. New Jersey's got the Paramus Mall.

   And, yes, New York's got the Metropolitan Opera, New York City
Ballet and Carnegie Hall. (Not to mention a certain stretch of
theaters known as Broadway.) New Jersey's got, well, the New Jersey
Symphony.

   As for history, what hasn't happened in New York: Wall Street
crashes, World Series victories, the birth of nearly every fashion
trend since the little black dress, the death of civility (I'll
trade manners for a corned-beef sandwich from the Carnegie Deli any
day of the week).

   And, dear Doug, did you actually bring up the Jersey Shore _
that narrow stretch of hypodermic needle-filled sand _ as a
positive? I've seen potholes on Ninth Avenue with more charm.

   True, a bunch of New Yorkers in search of the trappings of
suburbia inevitably end up on the wrong side of the Hudson. For the
benefit of owning a four-bedroom Colonial with a leaky roof, they
miss out on the sensory overload that is life in the World's
Greatest City. Or they experience it only as commuters _ and inhale
a lifetime's worth of cancer-inducing bus exhaust every afternoon
on line at the Port Authority.

   And yet ask these proud Jersey residents where they're from and
they'll all say the same thing: the New York area. When was the
last time you heard a New Yorker say he was from the New Jersey
area?

   But, as I say, it's a great place to die.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0066 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 11:23 ',
			header: '
A4476 &Cx1f; tad-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-OKEECHOBEE-PROBLEMS12     06-11 0667
',
			slug: ' BC-OKEECHOBEE-PROBLEMS12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   Egged on by a busload of outraged Treasure Coast residents,
water managers recently endorsed a plan to keep Lake Okeechobee
lower year-round and sharply reduce discharges of polluted water
into the St. Lucie River.

   But the proposal also would spill more phosphorus-tainted water
into the northern Everglades. That would worsen a pollution problem
that prompted the federal government to sue Florida in 1988,
forcing taxpayers to finance a $700 million-plus cleanup.

   The vote came more than four years after water managers last
rebuffed environmentalists, who say lowering the lake is crucial to
reviving its shallow, marshy fringes.

   The additional phosphorus could turn 538 acres of sawgrass marsh
into thick, damaging clumps of cattails by the year 2004,
scientists at the South Florida Water Management District
estimated. It also could inspire a new lawsuit from the Miccosukee
Indians, whose reservation lies in the heart of the Everglades, a
tribal spokesman warned.

   District leaders said their dilemma illustrates yet another
failure of South Florida's drainage system: Anything they do to
help one part of the environment ends up hurting another.

   ``We may be creating a greater problem,'' said Richard Machek, a
board member from Delray Beach. He said he worries that the change
``is only going to be a quick fix for the estuaries, but it's going
to be a disaster for the Everglades.''

   He joined the 7-0 vote to support the proposal.

   The final decision is up to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,
which must analyze the environmental effects. If the corps OK's the
change, it could take effect in about a year.

   Another federal agency, the U.S. Interior Department, has yet to
take a stance, said Su Jewell, a biologist at the department's
Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge in Palm
Beach County. But Jewell said she worries about any extra
phosphorus hitting the Everglades.

   ``We've been fighting for 10 years for cleaner water,'' she
said.

   Sugar growers supported the proposal even though they have
argued that a lower lake could make droughts more frequent.

   Environmentalists long have advocated a shallower lake, which
helps the fringe marshes that cleanse water and provide habitat for
birds and fish.

   The proposal would lower by as much as 2 feet the height that
the lake is allowed to reach before the corps and district can
start releasing water. It also would let water managers respond
faster to droughts and deluges by letting them consider long-range
forecasts in their decisions, district scientist Barry Rosen said.
Existing rules don't allow that.

   The proposal would mean little change in the number of times
lake water dumps into the St. Lucie River, but it would sharply
reduce the biggest discharges, the district says. The amount of
water released south into the Everglades would more than double.

   More than 40 Martin and St. Lucie county residents trekked to
suburban West Palm Beach to lobby for the vote. But the residents,
many wearing green ribbons and holding signs that read ``Never
Again,'' said the district's action is only a start.

   ``We will no longer be the sewer for Lake Okeechobee,'' said
Kathryn Tobey of Hutchinson Island.

   Meanwhile, Miccosukee water resources director Gene Duncan
demanded that the district clean any lake water it sends south,
even if it costs a lot more.

   ``We will do what it takes to defend the Everglades,'' Duncan
said. To the board, he said: ``I don't think you people understand
anything but lawsuits.''

   Florida Audubon Society lobbyist Charles Lee argued that the
additional phosphorus would be minor compared with the amount
already flowing south from sugar farms and other sources.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Water in a sieve: environmental troubles continue to plague
Okeechobee
 &HT;    By Robert P. King
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   Egged on by a busload of outraged Treasure Coast residents,
water managers recently endorsed a plan to keep Lake Okeechobee
lower year-round and sharply reduce discharges of polluted water
into the St. Lucie River.

   But the proposal also would spill more phosphorus-tainted water
into the northern Everglades. That would worsen a pollution problem
that prompted the federal government to sue Florida in 1988,
forcing taxpayers to finance a $700 million-plus cleanup.

   The vote came more than four years after water managers last
rebuffed environmentalists, who say lowering the lake is crucial to
reviving its shallow, marshy fringes.

   The additional phosphorus could turn 538 acres of sawgrass marsh
into thick, damaging clumps of cattails by the year 2004,
scientists at the South Florida Water Management District
estimated. It also could inspire a new lawsuit from the Miccosukee
Indians, whose reservation lies in the heart of the Everglades, a
tribal spokesman warned.

   District leaders said their dilemma illustrates yet another
failure of South Florida's drainage system: Anything they do to
help one part of the environment ends up hurting another.

   ``We may be creating a greater problem,'' said Richard Machek, a
board member from Delray Beach. He said he worries that the change
``is only going to be a quick fix for the estuaries, but it's going
to be a disaster for the Everglades.''

   He joined the 7-0 vote to support the proposal.

   The final decision is up to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,
which must analyze the environmental effects. If the corps OK's the
change, it could take effect in about a year.

   Another federal agency, the U.S. Interior Department, has yet to
take a stance, said Su Jewell, a biologist at the department's
Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge in Palm
Beach County. But Jewell said she worries about any extra
phosphorus hitting the Everglades.

   ``We've been fighting for 10 years for cleaner water,'' she
said.

   Sugar growers supported the proposal even though they have
argued that a lower lake could make droughts more frequent.

   Environmentalists long have advocated a shallower lake, which
helps the fringe marshes that cleanse water and provide habitat for
birds and fish.

   The proposal would lower by as much as 2 feet the height that
the lake is allowed to reach before the corps and district can
start releasing water. It also would let water managers respond
faster to droughts and deluges by letting them consider long-range
forecasts in their decisions, district scientist Barry Rosen said.
Existing rules don't allow that.

   The proposal would mean little change in the number of times
lake water dumps into the St. Lucie River, but it would sharply
reduce the biggest discharges, the district says. The amount of
water released south into the Everglades would more than double.

   More than 40 Martin and St. Lucie county residents trekked to
suburban West Palm Beach to lobby for the vote. But the residents,
many wearing green ribbons and holding signs that read ``Never
Again,'' said the district's action is only a start.

   ``We will no longer be the sewer for Lake Okeechobee,'' said
Kathryn Tobey of Hutchinson Island.

   Meanwhile, Miccosukee water resources director Gene Duncan
demanded that the district clean any lake water it sends south,
even if it costs a lot more.

   ``We will do what it takes to defend the Everglades,'' Duncan
said. To the board, he said: ``I don't think you people understand
anything but lawsuits.''

   Florida Audubon Society lobbyist Charles Lee argued that the
additional phosphorus would be minor compared with the amount
already flowing south from sugar farms and other sources.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0067 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 11:23 ',
			header: '
A4477 &Cx1f; tad-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TXAQUIFER-PROTECTED12     06-11 1490
',
			slug: ' BC-TXAQUIFER-PROTECTED12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   AUSTIN _ State environmental officials want to toughen rules
protecting the Edwards Aquifer, the source of drinking water for
1.75 million people, from polluted runoff.

   The proposed rules would affect thousands of acres in Central
Texas, and they've drawn fire from builders, who say the rules are
too strict and would add to the cost of housing.

   Environmentalists, on the other hand, say the rules wouldn't
protect all the land that needs protection and don't provide the
best runoff controls.

   Officials with the Texas Natural Resource Conservation
Commission say they want to minimize the amount of pollution that
seeps into the aquifer, an underground limestone formation that
feeds Barton Springs and supplies San Antonio with its only source
of drinking water.

   Today is the last day for public comment before the conservation
commission votes on the rules in late August or early September.

   The proposal would expand restrictions on development in the
aquifer's contributing zone, which contains rivers and streams that
flow into the aquifer's recharge zone. Within the recharge zone,
water and runoff seep directly into the aquifer.

   The contributing zone includes a strip of thousands of acres of
mostly rural areas stretching from west of Georgetown to San
Antonio. The restrictions would cover all areas inside or outside
city limits, including most of western Williamson, Hays and Comal
counties and communities such as Wimberley, Dripping Springs, Cedar
Park and Leander.

   The proposal also has uncovered a difference between the way
major cities and their neighbors approach the environment. While
leaders in San Antonio and Austin push for even more restrictions
than the state is proposing, officials in Williamson and Hays
counties say the state is going too far.

   Austin leaders said the proposal doesn't match the city's goal
of keeping all development from polluting the aquifer. Austin City
Council Member Daryl Slusher called the proposal a step in the
right direction, but said it should include restrictions on
impervious cover, the surfaces such as rooftops and driveways that
force water elsewhere.

   ``I'm happy that they're improving their rules, but for the most
part in Texas, the magnitude of the water-quality dangers are not
matched by the state's improvement in their regulations,'' Slusher
said.

   State Rep. Mike Krusee, R-Round Rock, said the proposal is too
strict on development. In Williamson County _ one of the nation's
fastest-growing areas _ it would roughly double the amount of land
that falls under state environmental protection.

   ``This is the crown jewel of Williamson County as far as putting
value on the land that can provide a stable tax base for our county
and our schools and our cities,'' Krusee said.

   ``It's going to increase development and housing costs, and
obviously when you increase housing costs, you're decreasing the
quality of life.''

   Officials at the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission
say they developed the proposal in response to calls for limiting
development over the contributing zone.

   ``Essentially, it's the environmental groups and the cities of
Austin and San Antonio,'' said Mary Ambrose, senior environmental
specialist in water policy and regulations for the commission.

   ``Their contention is that as development occurs out there,
there's going to be degradation of the surface water quality which
then becomes recharge for the aquifer.''

   The proposed rules would require developers to tell the state
how they plan to mitigate stormwater runoff during construction and
after a subdivision is built.

   Permanent detention ponds and other structures must keep all
sediment leaving the site from increasing by more than 20 percent
over existing levels.

   The proposal leaves out thousands of acres of the contributing
zone in Lampasas, Burnet and Mills counties and more counties west
of San Antonio. Instead, it covers the contributing zone westward
from where waster enters the recharge zone _ stopping at the county
line.

   If water flows across the county line, it doesn't make much
sense to stop the regulation of that water there, some say.

   ``If it's contributing out of Lampasas County, then let's
protect our flow from those contributing zones as well,'' said John
Fenoglio, with the Ethel Barnes Association, a group of rural
Williamson County residents seeking greater environmental
protection.

   Ambrose said the state conservation commission doesn't want to
cover all counties that have part of the contributing zone because
it doesn't have enough staff to enforce the regulations and because
support for the rules diminishes farther away from the recharge
zone.

   ``The people in the contributing zones really don't see
themselves as benefiting from these rules because they're generally
not dependent on the Edwards for drinking water,'' Ambrose said.
``They're using surface water or water derived from a different
aquifer.''

   Bell County, for example, is home to the environmentally
sensitive Salado Springs, which feeds directly into the aquifer.

   The Bell County portion of the contributing zone is excluded
from the proposed rules because residents there have not asked for
the regulation and the area is less developed, said John B.
Hofmann, executive assistant to conservation Commissioner John
Baker of Temple.

   More people are familiar with county boundaries than with
watershed boundaries, Ambrose said. It's also harder to show that
runoff from counties far away from the recharge zone actually sends
significant pollution into the aquifer, she said.

   But stopping the rules at the county line waters them down and
makes them seem more political, said Bill Bunch, an attorney for
the SOS Alliance.

   ``This is the TNRCC trying to look like they're doing something
meaningful for the environment, but there's really not much
there,'' Bunch said. ``It's offensive that they're using the term
'contributing zone.' ``

   A coalition of a half-dozen environmental groups, including the
SOS Alliance and Lone Star Sierra Club, put together a list of
seven critical ways development should be regulated to protect the
aquifer, Bunch said. The state's proposal does not address or falls
short of all seven, he said.

   Land developers say the new rules would increase the cost of
building subdivisions and therefore increase the cost of houses in
the Austin area.

   Larry Honea, a developer who helped build the Vista Oaks
subdivision on FM 1431 west of Round Rock, said the proposal brings
a level of uncertainty to the housing market.

   ``Williamson County is a very dynamic and developing area, and
any time you put this kind of a question mark on home buyers and
investors and on developers, then it's not going to help,'' Honea
said. ``Until I know what's going on as far as the development cost
... I'm certainly not going to go out acquiring more land.''

   But developers have been able to make money in parts of far
South Austin and other areas where subdivisions must follow strict
recharge zone rules, Slusher said. ``We haven't been getting much
affordable housing in the Austin area for a long time, and that
would be the case in any watershed,'' he said.

   Conservation commission officials say the regulations would
boost the average cost of a 100-unit development by $1,000 to
$2,000. Nonetheless, Hays County Commissioner Bill Burnett said
they would aggravate a shortage of affordable housing in his
county. ``It would be staggering to people of average means,'' he
said.

   Increased housing costs resulting from the restrictions might
not be such a bad thing, Bunch said.

   The market for less-expensive housing would drive development
away from the contributing zone.

   But that would contradict Austin's stated position for growth in
the area, Krusee said. Austin is targeting growth in a ``desired
development zone'' that stretches into southern Williamson County
from U.S. 183 to Interstate 35, as far north as Brushy Creek.

   Officials have already mapped out the future based on that
policy, Krusee said.

   Austin leaders are encouraging industry to locate in northern
and eastern parts of the city where pollution has a less-severe
impact on the aquifer.

   Cedar Park, Leander and Round Rock have formed partnerships with
the Lower Colorado River Authority and the Brazos River Authority
to provide secure water and sewer services to southwestern
Williamson County for decades to come.

   ``If someone is out there saying we shouldn't develop the
western half of Williamson County, they need to say it plainly.
I've never heard that,'' Krusee said.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Agency aims to stregthen rules for development at Edwards
aquifer
 &HT;    By Dylan Rivera
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   AUSTIN _ State environmental officials want to toughen rules
protecting the Edwards Aquifer, the source of drinking water for
1.75 million people, from polluted runoff.

   The proposed rules would affect thousands of acres in Central
Texas, and they've drawn fire from builders, who say the rules are
too strict and would add to the cost of housing.

   Environmentalists, on the other hand, say the rules wouldn't
protect all the land that needs protection and don't provide the
best runoff controls.

   Officials with the Texas Natural Resource Conservation
Commission say they want to minimize the amount of pollution that
seeps into the aquifer, an underground limestone formation that
feeds Barton Springs and supplies San Antonio with its only source
of drinking water.

   Today is the last day for public comment before the conservation
commission votes on the rules in late August or early September.

   The proposal would expand restrictions on development in the
aquifer's contributing zone, which contains rivers and streams that
flow into the aquifer's recharge zone. Within the recharge zone,
water and runoff seep directly into the aquifer.

   The contributing zone includes a strip of thousands of acres of
mostly rural areas stretching from west of Georgetown to San
Antonio. The restrictions would cover all areas inside or outside
city limits, including most of western Williamson, Hays and Comal
counties and communities such as Wimberley, Dripping Springs, Cedar
Park and Leander.

   The proposal also has uncovered a difference between the way
major cities and their neighbors approach the environment. While
leaders in San Antonio and Austin push for even more restrictions
than the state is proposing, officials in Williamson and Hays
counties say the state is going too far.

   Austin leaders said the proposal doesn't match the city's goal
of keeping all development from polluting the aquifer. Austin City
Council Member Daryl Slusher called the proposal a step in the
right direction, but said it should include restrictions on
impervious cover, the surfaces such as rooftops and driveways that
force water elsewhere.

   ``I'm happy that they're improving their rules, but for the most
part in Texas, the magnitude of the water-quality dangers are not
matched by the state's improvement in their regulations,'' Slusher
said.

   State Rep. Mike Krusee, R-Round Rock, said the proposal is too
strict on development. In Williamson County _ one of the nation's
fastest-growing areas _ it would roughly double the amount of land
that falls under state environmental protection.

   ``This is the crown jewel of Williamson County as far as putting
value on the land that can provide a stable tax base for our county
and our schools and our cities,'' Krusee said.

   ``It's going to increase development and housing costs, and
obviously when you increase housing costs, you're decreasing the
quality of life.''

   Officials at the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission
say they developed the proposal in response to calls for limiting
development over the contributing zone.

   ``Essentially, it's the environmental groups and the cities of
Austin and San Antonio,'' said Mary Ambrose, senior environmental
specialist in water policy and regulations for the commission.

   ``Their contention is that as development occurs out there,
there's going to be degradation of the surface water quality which
then becomes recharge for the aquifer.''

   The proposed rules would require developers to tell the state
how they plan to mitigate stormwater runoff during construction and
after a subdivision is built.

   Permanent detention ponds and other structures must keep all
sediment leaving the site from increasing by more than 20 percent
over existing levels.

   The proposal leaves out thousands of acres of the contributing
zone in Lampasas, Burnet and Mills counties and more counties west
of San Antonio. Instead, it covers the contributing zone westward
from where waster enters the recharge zone _ stopping at the county
line.

   If water flows across the county line, it doesn't make much
sense to stop the regulation of that water there, some say.

   ``If it's contributing out of Lampasas County, then let's
protect our flow from those contributing zones as well,'' said John
Fenoglio, with the Ethel Barnes Association, a group of rural
Williamson County residents seeking greater environmental
protection.

   Ambrose said the state conservation commission doesn't want to
cover all counties that have part of the contributing zone because
it doesn't have enough staff to enforce the regulations and because
support for the rules diminishes farther away from the recharge
zone.

   ``The people in the contributing zones really don't see
themselves as benefiting from these rules because they're generally
not dependent on the Edwards for drinking water,'' Ambrose said.
``They're using surface water or water derived from a different
aquifer.''

   Bell County, for example, is home to the environmentally
sensitive Salado Springs, which feeds directly into the aquifer.

   The Bell County portion of the contributing zone is excluded
from the proposed rules because residents there have not asked for
the regulation and the area is less developed, said John B.
Hofmann, executive assistant to conservation Commissioner John
Baker of Temple.

   More people are familiar with county boundaries than with
watershed boundaries, Ambrose said. It's also harder to show that
runoff from counties far away from the recharge zone actually sends
significant pollution into the aquifer, she said.

   But stopping the rules at the county line waters them down and
makes them seem more political, said Bill Bunch, an attorney for
the SOS Alliance.

   ``This is the TNRCC trying to look like they're doing something
meaningful for the environment, but there's really not much
there,'' Bunch said. ``It's offensive that they're using the term
'contributing zone.' ``

   A coalition of a half-dozen environmental groups, including the
SOS Alliance and Lone Star Sierra Club, put together a list of
seven critical ways development should be regulated to protect the
aquifer, Bunch said. The state's proposal does not address or falls
short of all seven, he said.

   Land developers say the new rules would increase the cost of
building subdivisions and therefore increase the cost of houses in
the Austin area.

   Larry Honea, a developer who helped build the Vista Oaks
subdivision on FM 1431 west of Round Rock, said the proposal brings
a level of uncertainty to the housing market.

   ``Williamson County is a very dynamic and developing area, and
any time you put this kind of a question mark on home buyers and
investors and on developers, then it's not going to help,'' Honea
said. ``Until I know what's going on as far as the development cost
... I'm certainly not going to go out acquiring more land.''

   But developers have been able to make money in parts of far
South Austin and other areas where subdivisions must follow strict
recharge zone rules, Slusher said. ``We haven't been getting much
affordable housing in the Austin area for a long time, and that
would be the case in any watershed,'' he said.

   Conservation commission officials say the regulations would
boost the average cost of a 100-unit development by $1,000 to
$2,000. Nonetheless, Hays County Commissioner Bill Burnett said
they would aggravate a shortage of affordable housing in his
county. ``It would be staggering to people of average means,'' he
said.

   Increased housing costs resulting from the restrictions might
not be such a bad thing, Bunch said.

   The market for less-expensive housing would drive development
away from the contributing zone.

   But that would contradict Austin's stated position for growth in
the area, Krusee said. Austin is targeting growth in a ``desired
development zone'' that stretches into southern Williamson County
from U.S. 183 to Interstate 35, as far north as Brushy Creek.

   Officials have already mapped out the future based on that
policy, Krusee said.

   Austin leaders are encouraging industry to locate in northern
and eastern parts of the city where pollution has a less-severe
impact on the aquifer.

   Cedar Park, Leander and Round Rock have formed partnerships with
the Lower Colorado River Authority and the Brazos River Authority
to provide secure water and sewer services to southwestern
Williamson County for decades to come.

   ``If someone is out there saying we shouldn't develop the
western half of Williamson County, they need to say it plainly.
I've never heard that,'' Krusee said.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0068 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 11:23 ',
			header: '
A4478 &Cx1f; tad-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TXBANS-FIREWORKS12-CO     06-11 0756
',
			slug: ' BC-TXBANS-FIREWORKS12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   AUSTIN _ With the county so dry that wildfires appear almost
inevitable, Travis County, Texas, Judge Bill Aleshire declared an
emergency outdoor burning ban _ prohibiting fireworks and other
flames that could scorch thousands of acres if carelessly handled.

   Travis County joined Williamson, Hays and several other counties
in Central Texas who have varying degrees of outdoor burning bans.
Hays, for instance, hasn't prohibited fireworks.

   The Travis County ban, which applies to unincorporated areas of
the county, lasts for seven days, but Aleshire said if it doesn't
rain soon and often, the county commissioners will probably extend
the ban through the July 4 holiday.

   Aleshire, after talking about how much he would miss fireworks
himself on Independence Day, said: ``I've signed the order because
the number of careless fires is on the increase and we have July
4th fireworks sales beginning soon. I don't sign such declarations
without advice from our fire and emergency management
professionals, and they have asked me to make this declaration.''

   Although 1998 started out wet, with Austin getting more than two
inches above normal rain in February and March, rainfall dwindled
to only 1.51 inches in April and May, compared with the average of
7.34 inches.

   During a typical summer the county's 14 fire departments will
battle six to 10 grass or brush fires a week. During the current
dry season, the departments are fighting 15 to 20 fires weekly,
according to Pete Baldwin, emergency management coordinator for
Travis County.

   Facing such numbers, Aleshire issued the burning ban that
includes these details:

   _ Igniting fireworks, even on private property, is prohibited in
unincorporated areas of Travis County.

   _ Outdoor burning of trash or brush is banned.

   _ Motorists who toss lighted cigarettes out a window can be
fined.

   _ Violation of the ban is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
up to $1,000.

   ``Although fireworks can cause fires, most of the blazes we have
seen in the county come from carelessly tossed cigarettes or
uncontrolled burning of trash or brush,'' said Aleshire. Sheriff
Margo Frasier said her department will vigorously enforce the ban.

   The prohibition does not include barbecue pits or grills, as
long as they are built to safely control the fires inside them,
Aleshire said.

   ``I love bottle rockets as much as anyone,'' Aleshire said. ``I
will be very disappointed personally that I won't get to set off my
favorite artillery shells in my back yard this year. But it's just
too dangerous to permit such activity ... even for a county
judge.''

   Until 1997, state law allowed county commissioners to ban the
use of fireworks in unincorporated areas only if they set up an
alternative site where fireworks could be used, Baldwin said.
During the last session of the Texas Legislature, the law was
altered to allow the ban without establishing an alternative
fireworks site in a county, Baldwin said.

   State law does not allow a commissioners court to forbid the
sale of fireworks.

   Aleshire's ban does not affect the 15 incorporated cities in
Travis County, all of which establish their own ordinances
regarding open burning or the use of fireworks within their city
limits.

   The show should go on for the popular July 4 fireworks display
that the Austin Symphony sponsors at Auditorium Shores. City of
Austin spokeswoman Michele Middlebrook-Gonzalez said the fireworks
show over Town Lake is still scheduled and won't be canceled unless
fire officials determine there is too great a risk.

   Most of Travis County's smaller cities already forbid fireworks
within their limits or already have burn bans in place.

   Hays County Judge Eddy Etheredge said his county declared a ban
on open burning about a month ago. The ban does not include use of
fireworks.

   ``We are looking very carefully at whether it should be extended
to fireworks, but we have not made a decision so far,'' Etheredge
said.

   Williamson County Judge John Doerfler ordered an outdoor burning
ban June 2. Williamson County commissioners added aerial fireworks
to the ban on Tuesday, according to Williamson County officials.

   American-Statesman staff writers Christian Davenport and Kelley
Daniel contributed to this report.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Travis County, Texas, bans fireworks, trash burning
 &HT;    By Bob Banta
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   AUSTIN _ With the county so dry that wildfires appear almost
inevitable, Travis County, Texas, Judge Bill Aleshire declared an
emergency outdoor burning ban _ prohibiting fireworks and other
flames that could scorch thousands of acres if carelessly handled.

   Travis County joined Williamson, Hays and several other counties
in Central Texas who have varying degrees of outdoor burning bans.
Hays, for instance, hasn't prohibited fireworks.

   The Travis County ban, which applies to unincorporated areas of
the county, lasts for seven days, but Aleshire said if it doesn't
rain soon and often, the county commissioners will probably extend
the ban through the July 4 holiday.

   Aleshire, after talking about how much he would miss fireworks
himself on Independence Day, said: ``I've signed the order because
the number of careless fires is on the increase and we have July
4th fireworks sales beginning soon. I don't sign such declarations
without advice from our fire and emergency management
professionals, and they have asked me to make this declaration.''

   Although 1998 started out wet, with Austin getting more than two
inches above normal rain in February and March, rainfall dwindled
to only 1.51 inches in April and May, compared with the average of
7.34 inches.

   During a typical summer the county's 14 fire departments will
battle six to 10 grass or brush fires a week. During the current
dry season, the departments are fighting 15 to 20 fires weekly,
according to Pete Baldwin, emergency management coordinator for
Travis County.

   Facing such numbers, Aleshire issued the burning ban that
includes these details:

   _ Igniting fireworks, even on private property, is prohibited in
unincorporated areas of Travis County.

   _ Outdoor burning of trash or brush is banned.

   _ Motorists who toss lighted cigarettes out a window can be
fined.

   _ Violation of the ban is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
up to $1,000.

   ``Although fireworks can cause fires, most of the blazes we have
seen in the county come from carelessly tossed cigarettes or
uncontrolled burning of trash or brush,'' said Aleshire. Sheriff
Margo Frasier said her department will vigorously enforce the ban.

   The prohibition does not include barbecue pits or grills, as
long as they are built to safely control the fires inside them,
Aleshire said.

   ``I love bottle rockets as much as anyone,'' Aleshire said. ``I
will be very disappointed personally that I won't get to set off my
favorite artillery shells in my back yard this year. But it's just
too dangerous to permit such activity ... even for a county
judge.''

   Until 1997, state law allowed county commissioners to ban the
use of fireworks in unincorporated areas only if they set up an
alternative site where fireworks could be used, Baldwin said.
During the last session of the Texas Legislature, the law was
altered to allow the ban without establishing an alternative
fireworks site in a county, Baldwin said.

   State law does not allow a commissioners court to forbid the
sale of fireworks.

   Aleshire's ban does not affect the 15 incorporated cities in
Travis County, all of which establish their own ordinances
regarding open burning or the use of fireworks within their city
limits.

   The show should go on for the popular July 4 fireworks display
that the Austin Symphony sponsors at Auditorium Shores. City of
Austin spokeswoman Michele Middlebrook-Gonzalez said the fireworks
show over Town Lake is still scheduled and won't be canceled unless
fire officials determine there is too great a risk.

   Most of Travis County's smaller cities already forbid fireworks
within their limits or already have burn bans in place.

   Hays County Judge Eddy Etheredge said his county declared a ban
on open burning about a month ago. The ban does not include use of
fireworks.

   ``We are looking very carefully at whether it should be extended
to fireworks, but we have not made a decision so far,'' Etheredge
said.

   Williamson County Judge John Doerfler ordered an outdoor burning
ban June 2. Williamson County commissioners added aerial fireworks
to the ban on Tuesday, according to Williamson County officials.

   American-Statesman staff writers Christian Davenport and Kelley
Daniel contributed to this report.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0069 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 11:41 ',
			header: '
A4501 &Cx1f; tad-z
u k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-KLEINBERG-COLUMN14-CO     06-11 0678
',
			slug: ' BC-KLEINBERG-COLUMN14-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   MIAMI _ There are infinite weird happenings down here in what
appears on maps to resemble (and feel like) the inflamed appendix
of America, so nothing surprises me anymore.

   Record drug busts, a growing number of indicted and convicted
public officials, evening air with which you can saturate a sponge,
rickety boatloads of refugees washing ashore on a daily basis _ and
recently voted by Money magazine as the least nice place to live
among 19 major Southern cities.

   Much of Miami's woes are attributable to geography and
demographics; the place is jutting into the waters that naturally
carry drug boats and refugee boats on the Gulf Stream current.
(This cannot be said for Atlanta, Memphis and the like.)

   But always there is something new to shock us while we are busy
preparing for hurricanes that Pat Robertson has assured his
believers will hit that Gomorrah of Gomorrahs, Orlando, but which
Murphy's law dictates will strike Miami, 200 miles south.

   Just prior to a naturalization ceremony in Miami Beach early
last week, a Colombian woman who had studied English in night
school for four years made a fatal slip-up with an INS employee. In
a conversation with him about changing her name as a result of a
divorce, her English failed. The INS official seized upon that and
denied her a place among the 2,000 receiving citizenship that day.

   Technically, the bureaucratic dogmatist was right in what he was
doing. The section of the U.S. Code dealing with requirements for
citizenship clearly states that the applicant have ``an
understanding of the English language, including an ability to
read, write and speak words in ordinary usage in the English
language.''

   There also are lenient provisions for the handicapped and
elderly, neither affecting this woman.

   What was so weird _ so Miami-ish _ about this situation,
however, is that there must be several hundred thousand people here
who are citizens but who cannot or who claim they cannot speak a
word of English.

   And what is so hypocritical about U.S. policy is that while the
U.S. Code demands that prospective citizens learn English, election
law requires all ballots and voter registration cards to be printed
both in English and Spanish.

   A lengthy ballot in Miami, say with constitutional amendment
questions involved, can be many pages thick _ half of them in
Spanish.

   Do not begin thinking that I am one of those English-only
people; I'm not. But I'm also not a Spanish-only believer and too
many in this area are speaking Spanish only, and requiring
authorities to put things into Spanish for people who have already
had to show an ability to speak and read English.

   Perhaps many of the new citizens can speak English the day they
become naturalized, but in returning to their Spanish-only
environment they quickly lose that ability and, the truth be known,
can live a lengthy and prosperous life in Miami without having to
speak a word of English.

   While I know it always is more comfortable to be able to speak
the mother tongue, the pendulum has swung too far in that direction
for my own personal comfort.

   Nevertheless, the idea of a woman being rejected for citizenship
because she stumbled over a few words, while most of the 2,000
already in the swearing-in room probably cannot master as many
words as she can, is what is troubling me.

   Selective enforcement always has.

   The government has a history of being lax about language, hence
the bilingual ballots and voter registration cards. It also has a
history of being inconsistent in enforcing its laws.

   Those that pertain to language certainly are among them.

   (Howard Kleinberg, a former editor of the Miami News, is a
columnist for Cox Newspapers. His e-mail address is
hkmiami(at)aol.com.)

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    COMMENTARY: U.S. policy toward language is a contradiction
 &HT;    (For release Sunday, June 14, 1998.)
 &HT;    By Howard Kleinberg
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   MIAMI _ There are infinite weird happenings down here in what
appears on maps to resemble (and feel like) the inflamed appendix
of America, so nothing surprises me anymore.

   Record drug busts, a growing number of indicted and convicted
public officials, evening air with which you can saturate a sponge,
rickety boatloads of refugees washing ashore on a daily basis _ and
recently voted by Money magazine as the least nice place to live
among 19 major Southern cities.

   Much of Miami's woes are attributable to geography and
demographics; the place is jutting into the waters that naturally
carry drug boats and refugee boats on the Gulf Stream current.
(This cannot be said for Atlanta, Memphis and the like.)

   But always there is something new to shock us while we are busy
preparing for hurricanes that Pat Robertson has assured his
believers will hit that Gomorrah of Gomorrahs, Orlando, but which
Murphy's law dictates will strike Miami, 200 miles south.

   Just prior to a naturalization ceremony in Miami Beach early
last week, a Colombian woman who had studied English in night
school for four years made a fatal slip-up with an INS employee. In
a conversation with him about changing her name as a result of a
divorce, her English failed. The INS official seized upon that and
denied her a place among the 2,000 receiving citizenship that day.

   Technically, the bureaucratic dogmatist was right in what he was
doing. The section of the U.S. Code dealing with requirements for
citizenship clearly states that the applicant have ``an
understanding of the English language, including an ability to
read, write and speak words in ordinary usage in the English
language.''

   There also are lenient provisions for the handicapped and
elderly, neither affecting this woman.

   What was so weird _ so Miami-ish _ about this situation,
however, is that there must be several hundred thousand people here
who are citizens but who cannot or who claim they cannot speak a
word of English.

   And what is so hypocritical about U.S. policy is that while the
U.S. Code demands that prospective citizens learn English, election
law requires all ballots and voter registration cards to be printed
both in English and Spanish.

   A lengthy ballot in Miami, say with constitutional amendment
questions involved, can be many pages thick _ half of them in
Spanish.

   Do not begin thinking that I am one of those English-only
people; I'm not. But I'm also not a Spanish-only believer and too
many in this area are speaking Spanish only, and requiring
authorities to put things into Spanish for people who have already
had to show an ability to speak and read English.

   Perhaps many of the new citizens can speak English the day they
become naturalized, but in returning to their Spanish-only
environment they quickly lose that ability and, the truth be known,
can live a lengthy and prosperous life in Miami without having to
speak a word of English.

   While I know it always is more comfortable to be able to speak
the mother tongue, the pendulum has swung too far in that direction
for my own personal comfort.

   Nevertheless, the idea of a woman being rejected for citizenship
because she stumbled over a few words, while most of the 2,000
already in the swearing-in room probably cannot master as many
words as she can, is what is troubling me.

   Selective enforcement always has.

   The government has a history of being lax about language, hence
the bilingual ballots and voter registration cards. It also has a
history of being inconsistent in enforcing its laws.

   Those that pertain to language certainly are among them.

   (Howard Kleinberg, a former editor of the Miami News, is a
columnist for Cox Newspapers. His e-mail address is
hkmiami(at)aol.com.)

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0070 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 11:44 ',
			header: '
A4505 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HEARST-FEATURE-BUDGET     06-11 0282
',
			slug: ' BC-HEARST-FEATURE-BUDGET-HNS ',
			headline: '
EDITORS:
',
			trailer: '
   NATIONAL NEWS (``a'' category)

   CHECCHI-FUTURE (Beverly Hills, Calif.) _ Tanned, rested and
unrepentant, Al Checchi has taken his resounding failure in the
gubernatorial primary as a sign that California needs more of him.
By ROBERT SALLADAY.

   GAY-YOUTH (San Francisco) _ With young people accounting for a
disproportionate amount of new HIV infections, San Francisco is set
to open its first health clinic targeted at gay youth. By JULIE
CHAO.

   BALD-EAGLES (Albany, N.Y.) _ To the list of wildlife come-back
successes in this state topped off by the white-tail deer, wild
turkey and striped bass, add the bald eagle. But do so quietly, and
still with fingers crossed. Remember, bald eagles were so close to
extinction here 20 years ago that it's scary. By FRED LeBRUN.

   LIFESTYLE/FEATURES (``l'' category)

   AWNINGS (Albany, N.Y.) _ Awnings have been used as a source of
shelter from the elements since the 1600s, when they were used in
bazaars to protect perishables from the sweltering sun. By FRANCES
INGRAHAM.

   SPORTS (``s'' category)

   GLF-OPEN (San Francisco) _ On the eve of the 98th U.S. Open,
representatives from the United States Golf Association will meet
with the media to address technological advancements in equipment.
The USGA's announcement stands to affect all players, from Tiger
Woods all the way down to your basic hacker. By MARK FAINARU-WADA.
',
			body: '


  
 Thursday, June 11, 1998      The Hearst News Service will file the following stories for
Friday and Sunday. If you have questions, call Tim Spence at
202-298-6920.  
    (Slugline includes the ``HNS'' tag.)
   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NATIONAL NEWS (``a'' category)

   CHECCHI-FUTURE (Beverly Hills, Calif.) _ Tanned, rested and
unrepentant, Al Checchi has taken his resounding failure in the
gubernatorial primary as a sign that California needs more of him.
By ROBERT SALLADAY.

   GAY-YOUTH (San Francisco) _ With young people accounting for a
disproportionate amount of new HIV infections, San Francisco is set
to open its first health clinic targeted at gay youth. By JULIE
CHAO.

   BALD-EAGLES (Albany, N.Y.) _ To the list of wildlife come-back
successes in this state topped off by the white-tail deer, wild
turkey and striped bass, add the bald eagle. But do so quietly, and
still with fingers crossed. Remember, bald eagles were so close to
extinction here 20 years ago that it's scary. By FRED LeBRUN.

   LIFESTYLE/FEATURES (``l'' category)

   AWNINGS (Albany, N.Y.) _ Awnings have been used as a source of
shelter from the elements since the 1600s, when they were used in
bazaars to protect perishables from the sweltering sun. By FRANCES
INGRAHAM.

   SPORTS (``s'' category)

   GLF-OPEN (San Francisco) _ On the eve of the 98th U.S. Open,
representatives from the United States Golf Association will meet
with the media to address technological advancements in equipment.
The USGA's announcement stands to affect all players, from Tiger
Woods all the way down to your basic hacker. By MARK FAINARU-WADA.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0071 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:00 ',
			header: '
A4530 &Cx1f; tad-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SMALL-BIZ-COX &UR; 540&AMP;ADD     06-11 1029
',
			slug: ' BC-SMALL-BIZ-COX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ About 550 owners and managers of small businesses
will converge Wednesday at a ``Congressional Small Business
Summit'' here to shape their anti-tax, pro-business legislative
priorities for the next two years.

   The 550 voting delegates will join more than 1,000 other
participants at the three-day event organized by the influential
National Federation of Independent Business, with cooperation from
the American Farm Bureau Federation and five smaller business
associations. The delegates, associations and some big corporate
sponsors will split the $1.7 million tab.

   More than 3,000 people in 50 states started the voting and
discussion at 280 sites at a satellite-aided video conference in
late May. The NFIB limited the discussion to four topics _ health
care, taxes, regulations and lawsuits.

   Explaining why the topics were pruned to those four, Jack Faris,
president of the NFIB, said, ``The details change from year to
year, but on 99.98 percent of things, small business owners don't
change their minds on clear-cut economic issues like these.''

   NFIB surveys show that the vast majority of its 600,000 members
want a federal exemption from state standards for health benefits,
dislike taxes and fear the IRS, seek less burdensome environmental
and safety regulations, and crave protection from lawsuits.

   ``We expect to come up with 10 specific priority items in each
of the four issue categories,'' said Gerry Harkins, a partner in a
construction firm in Conley, Ga. ``I guess the biggest deal is, we
will be presenting Congress and the president with 1 million
signatures on the NFIB petition to abolish the IRS Code and replace
it with a flatter, fairer tax.''

   NFIB volunteers will also distribute the legislative wish list
to candidates for state and federal office beginning in August.

   ``They'll ask, `Are you with us or against us on these issues?'
'' Faris said. By publicizing the answers, the NFIB hopes to
achieve at least one of its political goals for this fall: election
of the third straight Congress in which the new members include
more business people than lawyers.

   ``If enough of us trudge forward, we can finally get people to
listen to the voice of small business,'' said Jackie Fox, general
manager of a firm that employs 183 people in beauty salons, spas
and retail centers in and around Columbus, Ohio.

   More than 1,200 volunteers from the 36,000 NFIB firms in Ohio
have signed up to campaign for Republican Gov. George Voinovich's
U.S. Senate campaign, even though he supported a sales tax increase
that the NFIB helped defeat. Another 4,000 members in other states
have signed up for 40 campaigns.

   Predicting that the national total will reach 20,000, Faris
said, ``Big Labor won't be the only group that has massive numbers
of campaign workers in the field.''

   With that kind of grassroots intensity, the NFIB's involvement
virtually guarantees that the next Congress will approve at least
some of the summit's requests.

   (Story can end here. Optional add follows.)

   The NFIB has some 600,000 dues-paying firms, 900 employees and
an $85 million annual budget. It was ranked this year as the
nation's most powerful business lobby in a survey of Washington
insiders by Fortune magazine.

   The NFIB doesn't use big soft-money contributions to open
political doors. Its clout arises instead from the NFIB's proven
ability to energize volunteers like summit delegates Jan Triplett
of Texas, Ruth Cole Dusenbury of Colorado and Bobra (CQ) Bush of
Florida.

   ``When I took part in the most recent White House Conference on
Small Business in 1995, I saw that if you come up with resolutions
that make sense, you can have them acted on,'' said Triplett. That
official summit had 2,000 delegates, following preliminary sessions
involving 20,000 people.

   So she will go to this smaller, private summit _ sacrificing
three days from her job as co-director of Entrepreneurs
Association, a for-profit business based in Austin that links small
firms with consultants, investors and new American and foreign
customers.

   Dusenbury's family employs 20 workers at Speer Cushion Co.,
which manufactures replacement seats for off-road equipment in
Holyoke, Colo. Less happy than Triplett with the government's
response to the 1995 event, Dusenbury said she hopes this year's
will be more successful in ``preventing (federal imposition of) a
national health plan.''

   In Boca Raton, Fla., Bush employs 10 people in her consulting
firm, Telcom Corp. She said she squeezes in time for the NFIB
because it ``gets results,'' such as its success last year in
lobbying the Florida legislature to lower the unemployment business
tax.

   ``I had a good record, so my rates were already low,'' she said.
``The reforms reduced my rate to zero _ no payments at all _ for
the entire year of 1998.''

   The NFIB's activism is welcomed and rewarded by Republicans, who
have allowed its lobbyists into strategy sessions in the House.
Though Faris describes the NFIB as ``nonpartisan,'' it almost
always ends up siding with the GOP.

   The most prominent Republican invited to address the summit is
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga. The top Democrat is the less
prominent chief of the agency the NFIB loves to attack, IRS
Commissioner Charles O. Rossotti.

   Since January 1997, NFIB's federal political action committee
has reported that Republicans received all of the $60,500 it gave
to U.S. Senate candidates and 82 percent of the $279,630 it gave to
U.S. House candidates.

   ``We scratch around for suitable Democrats as hard as we can,''
Faris said. ``We had one (Rep. Jane Harman) in California's
Democratic primary for governor, but she got beat.''

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
',
			body: '

   540&AMP;ADD-$ADV13  SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS CONVENE
TO DRAW UP WISH LIST FOR CONGRESS
 &HT;     Moving in (w) Washington and (f) financial categories.
 &HT;     A photo to illustrate this story is available from the New York
Times News Service.
 &HT;     With SMALL-BIZ-DATA. For release Saturday, June 13.
 &HT;     By ANDREW MOLLISON 
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service 

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ About 550 owners and managers of small businesses
will converge Wednesday at a ``Congressional Small Business
Summit'' here to shape their anti-tax, pro-business legislative
priorities for the next two years.

   The 550 voting delegates will join more than 1,000 other
participants at the three-day event organized by the influential
National Federation of Independent Business, with cooperation from
the American Farm Bureau Federation and five smaller business
associations. The delegates, associations and some big corporate
sponsors will split the $1.7 million tab.

   More than 3,000 people in 50 states started the voting and
discussion at 280 sites at a satellite-aided video conference in
late May. The NFIB limited the discussion to four topics _ health
care, taxes, regulations and lawsuits.

   Explaining why the topics were pruned to those four, Jack Faris,
president of the NFIB, said, ``The details change from year to
year, but on 99.98 percent of things, small business owners don't
change their minds on clear-cut economic issues like these.''

   NFIB surveys show that the vast majority of its 600,000 members
want a federal exemption from state standards for health benefits,
dislike taxes and fear the IRS, seek less burdensome environmental
and safety regulations, and crave protection from lawsuits.

   ``We expect to come up with 10 specific priority items in each
of the four issue categories,'' said Gerry Harkins, a partner in a
construction firm in Conley, Ga. ``I guess the biggest deal is, we
will be presenting Congress and the president with 1 million
signatures on the NFIB petition to abolish the IRS Code and replace
it with a flatter, fairer tax.''

   NFIB volunteers will also distribute the legislative wish list
to candidates for state and federal office beginning in August.

   ``They'll ask, `Are you with us or against us on these issues?'
'' Faris said. By publicizing the answers, the NFIB hopes to
achieve at least one of its political goals for this fall: election
of the third straight Congress in which the new members include
more business people than lawyers.

   ``If enough of us trudge forward, we can finally get people to
listen to the voice of small business,'' said Jackie Fox, general
manager of a firm that employs 183 people in beauty salons, spas
and retail centers in and around Columbus, Ohio.

   More than 1,200 volunteers from the 36,000 NFIB firms in Ohio
have signed up to campaign for Republican Gov. George Voinovich's
U.S. Senate campaign, even though he supported a sales tax increase
that the NFIB helped defeat. Another 4,000 members in other states
have signed up for 40 campaigns.

   Predicting that the national total will reach 20,000, Faris
said, ``Big Labor won't be the only group that has massive numbers
of campaign workers in the field.''

   With that kind of grassroots intensity, the NFIB's involvement
virtually guarantees that the next Congress will approve at least
some of the summit's requests.

   (Story can end here. Optional add follows.)

   The NFIB has some 600,000 dues-paying firms, 900 employees and
an $85 million annual budget. It was ranked this year as the
nation's most powerful business lobby in a survey of Washington
insiders by Fortune magazine.

   The NFIB doesn't use big soft-money contributions to open
political doors. Its clout arises instead from the NFIB's proven
ability to energize volunteers like summit delegates Jan Triplett
of Texas, Ruth Cole Dusenbury of Colorado and Bobra (CQ) Bush of
Florida.

   ``When I took part in the most recent White House Conference on
Small Business in 1995, I saw that if you come up with resolutions
that make sense, you can have them acted on,'' said Triplett. That
official summit had 2,000 delegates, following preliminary sessions
involving 20,000 people.

   So she will go to this smaller, private summit _ sacrificing
three days from her job as co-director of Entrepreneurs
Association, a for-profit business based in Austin that links small
firms with consultants, investors and new American and foreign
customers.

   Dusenbury's family employs 20 workers at Speer Cushion Co.,
which manufactures replacement seats for off-road equipment in
Holyoke, Colo. Less happy than Triplett with the government's
response to the 1995 event, Dusenbury said she hopes this year's
will be more successful in ``preventing (federal imposition of) a
national health plan.''

   In Boca Raton, Fla., Bush employs 10 people in her consulting
firm, Telcom Corp. She said she squeezes in time for the NFIB
because it ``gets results,'' such as its success last year in
lobbying the Florida legislature to lower the unemployment business
tax.

   ``I had a good record, so my rates were already low,'' she said.
``The reforms reduced my rate to zero _ no payments at all _ for
the entire year of 1998.''

   The NFIB's activism is welcomed and rewarded by Republicans, who
have allowed its lobbyists into strategy sessions in the House.
Though Faris describes the NFIB as ``nonpartisan,'' it almost
always ends up siding with the GOP.

   The most prominent Republican invited to address the summit is
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga. The top Democrat is the less
prominent chief of the agency the NFIB loves to attack, IRS
Commissioner Charles O. Rossotti.

   Since January 1997, NFIB's federal political action committee
has reported that Republicans received all of the $60,500 it gave
to U.S. Senate candidates and 82 percent of the $279,630 it gave to
U.S. House candidates.

   ``We scratch around for suitable Democrats as hard as we can,''
Faris said. ``We had one (Rep. Jane Harman) in California's
Democratic primary for governor, but she got beat.''

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0072 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:01 ',
			header: '
A4532 &Cx1f; tab-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BUTLER-BAPTIST-HUSBAN     06-11 1022
',
			slug: ' BC-BUTLER-BAPTIST-HUSBANDS-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
SOUTHERN BAPTISTS MISREAD ST. PAUL'S MESSAGE 
',
			trailer: '
   (Diana Butler Bass, Ph.D., writes a religion column for the
Santa Barbara News-Press and is associate professor of religious
studies at Rhodes College in Memphis, Tenn. Her latest book is
``Standing Against the Whirlwind: Evangelical Episcopalians in 19th
Century America,'' published by Oxford University Press.)
',
			body: '


   (Commentary)  
 &HT;    
 (To purchase this ``separate buy'' article from the New York Times
Syndicate please contact syndicate sales representative CONNIE
WHITE in Kansas City at (800) 444-0267 or (816) 822-8448, or fax
her at (816) 822-1444.)  
 &HT;    
 By DIANA BUTLER BASS  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
 &HT;    
 &HT;    On Wednesday, Southern Baptists dominated our morning
conversation over coffee and the newspaper. ``Guess what?'' said my
husband, ``The Southern Baptists passed the resolution saying wives
must submit to their husbands.''
 &HT;    ``Wifely submission?'' I responded, ``Why not slaves? Why don't
they hold slaves, too?''
 &HT;    ``They would if they could. It's not legal. Remember? We fought
a war over that.''
 &HT;    This week, the Southern Baptist Convention amended Baptist Faith
and Message, the denomination's doctrinal summary, to include a
statement asserting male headship and female submission as the
model for Christian marriage.
 &HT;    Mary Mohler, a member of the family committee and wife of a
prominent Southern Baptist seminary president, defended the
amendment saying, ``Submission is not a negative word. It's not a
politically correct word. It is a biblically correct word.''
 &HT;    Although based on 42 biblical texts, the addition draws heavily
from Paul's letter to the Ephesians. In chapter five, the author
outlines his theology of marriage: wives must ``be subject'' to
their husbands as to God; husbands must ``love your wives as Christ
loved the church''; children must obey their parents. The new
statement follows the Pauline text almost exactly.
 &HT;    Almost. But not quite.
 &HT;    The Baptist statement stops with Paul's instructions for
children in Ephesians 6:4. The passage, however, continues with the
next verse, ``Slaves, be obedient to those who are your masters.''
 &HT;    Yes, Mrs. Mohler, wifely submission is ``biblically correct.''
So is slavery. The Bible teaches them in the same text. Why believe
one and not the other?
 &HT;    Despite my husband's quip, most Southern Baptists do not believe
in slavery and would surely be offended by the suggestion that they
do. But why not? Widely practiced in the ancient world, biblical
texts seem to support slavery. With only minor exceptions, the
Bible points to an overwhelming conclusion: slavery should be
regulated, but not necessarily abolished, in Christian societies.
 &HT;    Until the nineteenth century, Christians used the Bible to
justify slavery arguing that the practice was not inherently
sinful. According to scripture, even the most faithful believers
could be good masters.
 &HT;    Today, however, few Southern Baptists would admit slaveholding
is good. Like most people, they believe slavery was wrong --
perhaps even evil or sinful.
 &HT;    Instead, contemporary Christians argue that the Bible does not
promote slavery. Rather, the Bible only sanctioned slavery as a
cultural practice and attempted to control its excesses. Able to
differentiate between timeless moral teaching and cultural
temporalities, Christians -- Southern Baptists and other
conservatives included -- reject slavery in spite of apparent
biblical injunctions to the contrary.
 &HT;    When it comes to women, however, conservative Christians have
drawn the line. Male headship and wifely submission are not
cultural -- they are eternal biblical standards. If one violates
these spiritual principles, it is tantamount to apostasy and
threatens the moral stability of church and nation.
 &HT;    As with slavery, however, wifely submission was an ancient
cultural norm. Rome was a rigidly structured patriarchal society.
Authority flowed through the ``pater familias,'' the male head of
household, to all those who depended upon his protection. Roman
wives had few rights; children and slaves, none.
 &HT;    Early Christianity challenged Roman authority. Women and slaves
converted to the new faith in greater numbers than did the male
overlords. Rather than following their masters' old religions, the
converts embraced Jesus's teaching.
 &HT;    The new Christians disobeyed old authorities in order to be
baptized, to teach their children faith, and to attend worship.
When the Romans complained that Christianity was ``a religion of
women and slaves,'' they were warning the new faith undermined
social order -- especially the traditional family.
 &HT;    When Paul urged wives to submit, he was trying to control a
chaotic -- and potentially dangerous -- situation. Because it
threatened the family, the new church might be persecuted.
Exuberant converts needed to temper their faith with a respect for
traditional structure. Therefore, Paul urged wifely submission as a
way to prove their fidelity to Roman society and mitigate the
charge of treason to the Empire.
 &HT;    Ephesians 5 is not timeless morality. Rather, it reflects
particular problems faced by early Christians in the cultural
context of ancient Rome.
 &HT;    The ``biblical'' family -- now enshrined by Southern Baptists --
is not biblical at all. Pagans practiced male headship; early
Christians rejected it. They experienced a God who lifts the
oppressed from their humble estate.
 &HT;    The Christian family consists neither of roles nor structures.
Rather, it is a living community which embodies Jesus' teaching:
Love God and love thy neighbor as thyself.
 &HT;    Accordingly, my family is my closest neighbor; from this
intimate neighborhood, each member moves out into the world and
serves others in a life of faithful vocation. We do not lead,
submit, and obey; we love, respect, and support one another.
 &HT;    I'm sorry if that isn't Christian enough for the Southern
Baptists.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    ----
 &HT;    c.1998 Diana Butler Bass

',
			paragraphs: '
   (Diana Butler Bass, Ph.D., writes a religion column for the
Santa Barbara News-Press and is associate professor of religious
studies at Rhodes College in Memphis, Tenn. Her latest book is
``Standing Against the Whirlwind: Evangelical Episcopalians in 19th
Century America,'' published by Oxford University Press.)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0073 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:01 ',
			header: '
A4533 &Cx1f; tad-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SMALL-BIZ-COX &UR; 540&AMP;ADD     06-11 1029
',
			slug: ' BC-SMALL-BIZ-COX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ About 550 owners and managers of small businesses
will converge Wednesday at a ``Congressional Small Business
Summit'' here to shape their anti-tax, pro-business legislative
priorities for the next two years.

   The 550 voting delegates will join more than 1,000 other
participants at the three-day event organized by the influential
National Federation of Independent Business, with cooperation from
the American Farm Bureau Federation and five smaller business
associations. The delegates, associations and some big corporate
sponsors will split the $1.7 million tab.

   More than 3,000 people in 50 states started the voting and
discussion at 280 sites at a satellite-aided video conference in
late May. The NFIB limited the discussion to four topics _ health
care, taxes, regulations and lawsuits.

   Explaining why the topics were pruned to those four, Jack Faris,
president of the NFIB, said, ``The details change from year to
year, but on 99.98 percent of things, small business owners don't
change their minds on clear-cut economic issues like these.''

   NFIB surveys show that the vast majority of its 600,000 members
want a federal exemption from state standards for health benefits,
dislike taxes and fear the IRS, seek less burdensome environmental
and safety regulations, and crave protection from lawsuits.

   ``We expect to come up with 10 specific priority items in each
of the four issue categories,'' said Gerry Harkins, a partner in a
construction firm in Conley, Ga. ``I guess the biggest deal is, we
will be presenting Congress and the president with 1 million
signatures on the NFIB petition to abolish the IRS Code and replace
it with a flatter, fairer tax.''

   NFIB volunteers will also distribute the legislative wish list
to candidates for state and federal office beginning in August.

   ``They'll ask, `Are you with us or against us on these issues?'
'' Faris said. By publicizing the answers, the NFIB hopes to
achieve at least one of its political goals for this fall: election
of the third straight Congress in which the new members include
more business people than lawyers.

   ``If enough of us trudge forward, we can finally get people to
listen to the voice of small business,'' said Jackie Fox, general
manager of a firm that employs 183 people in beauty salons, spas
and retail centers in and around Columbus, Ohio.

   More than 1,200 volunteers from the 36,000 NFIB firms in Ohio
have signed up to campaign for Republican Gov. George Voinovich's
U.S. Senate campaign, even though he supported a sales tax increase
that the NFIB helped defeat. Another 4,000 members in other states
have signed up for 40 campaigns.

   Predicting that the national total will reach 20,000, Faris
said, ``Big Labor won't be the only group that has massive numbers
of campaign workers in the field.''

   With that kind of grassroots intensity, the NFIB's involvement
virtually guarantees that the next Congress will approve at least
some of the summit's requests.

   (Story can end here. Optional add follows.)

   The NFIB has some 600,000 dues-paying firms, 900 employees and
an $85 million annual budget. It was ranked this year as the
nation's most powerful business lobby in a survey of Washington
insiders by Fortune magazine.

   The NFIB doesn't use big soft-money contributions to open
political doors. Its clout arises instead from the NFIB's proven
ability to energize volunteers like summit delegates Jan Triplett
of Texas, Ruth Cole Dusenbury of Colorado and Bobra (CQ) Bush of
Florida.

   ``When I took part in the most recent White House Conference on
Small Business in 1995, I saw that if you come up with resolutions
that make sense, you can have them acted on,'' said Triplett. That
official summit had 2,000 delegates, following preliminary sessions
involving 20,000 people.

   So she will go to this smaller, private summit _ sacrificing
three days from her job as co-director of Entrepreneurs
Association, a for-profit business based in Austin that links small
firms with consultants, investors and new American and foreign
customers.

   Dusenbury's family employs 20 workers at Speer Cushion Co.,
which manufactures replacement seats for off-road equipment in
Holyoke, Colo. Less happy than Triplett with the government's
response to the 1995 event, Dusenbury said she hopes this year's
will be more successful in ``preventing (federal imposition of) a
national health plan.''

   In Boca Raton, Fla., Bush employs 10 people in her consulting
firm, Telcom Corp. She said she squeezes in time for the NFIB
because it ``gets results,'' such as its success last year in
lobbying the Florida legislature to lower the unemployment business
tax.

   ``I had a good record, so my rates were already low,'' she said.
``The reforms reduced my rate to zero _ no payments at all _ for
the entire year of 1998.''

   The NFIB's activism is welcomed and rewarded by Republicans, who
have allowed its lobbyists into strategy sessions in the House.
Though Faris describes the NFIB as ``nonpartisan,'' it almost
always ends up siding with the GOP.

   The most prominent Republican invited to address the summit is
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga. The top Democrat is the less
prominent chief of the agency the NFIB loves to attack, IRS
Commissioner Charles O. Rossotti.

   Since January 1997, NFIB's federal political action committee
has reported that Republicans received all of the $60,500 it gave
to U.S. Senate candidates and 82 percent of the $279,630 it gave to
U.S. House candidates.

   ``We scratch around for suitable Democrats as hard as we can,''
Faris said. ``We had one (Rep. Jane Harman) in California's
Democratic primary for governor, but she got beat.''

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
',
			body: '

   540&AMP;ADD-$ADV13  SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS CONVENE
TO DRAW UP WISH LIST FOR CONGRESS
 &HT;     Moving in (w) Washington and (f) financial categories.
 &HT;     A photo to illustrate this story is available from the New York
Times News Service.
 &HT;     With SMALL-BIZ-DATA. For release Saturday, June 13.
 &HT;     By ANDREW MOLLISON 
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service 

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ About 550 owners and managers of small businesses
will converge Wednesday at a ``Congressional Small Business
Summit'' here to shape their anti-tax, pro-business legislative
priorities for the next two years.

   The 550 voting delegates will join more than 1,000 other
participants at the three-day event organized by the influential
National Federation of Independent Business, with cooperation from
the American Farm Bureau Federation and five smaller business
associations. The delegates, associations and some big corporate
sponsors will split the $1.7 million tab.

   More than 3,000 people in 50 states started the voting and
discussion at 280 sites at a satellite-aided video conference in
late May. The NFIB limited the discussion to four topics _ health
care, taxes, regulations and lawsuits.

   Explaining why the topics were pruned to those four, Jack Faris,
president of the NFIB, said, ``The details change from year to
year, but on 99.98 percent of things, small business owners don't
change their minds on clear-cut economic issues like these.''

   NFIB surveys show that the vast majority of its 600,000 members
want a federal exemption from state standards for health benefits,
dislike taxes and fear the IRS, seek less burdensome environmental
and safety regulations, and crave protection from lawsuits.

   ``We expect to come up with 10 specific priority items in each
of the four issue categories,'' said Gerry Harkins, a partner in a
construction firm in Conley, Ga. ``I guess the biggest deal is, we
will be presenting Congress and the president with 1 million
signatures on the NFIB petition to abolish the IRS Code and replace
it with a flatter, fairer tax.''

   NFIB volunteers will also distribute the legislative wish list
to candidates for state and federal office beginning in August.

   ``They'll ask, `Are you with us or against us on these issues?'
'' Faris said. By publicizing the answers, the NFIB hopes to
achieve at least one of its political goals for this fall: election
of the third straight Congress in which the new members include
more business people than lawyers.

   ``If enough of us trudge forward, we can finally get people to
listen to the voice of small business,'' said Jackie Fox, general
manager of a firm that employs 183 people in beauty salons, spas
and retail centers in and around Columbus, Ohio.

   More than 1,200 volunteers from the 36,000 NFIB firms in Ohio
have signed up to campaign for Republican Gov. George Voinovich's
U.S. Senate campaign, even though he supported a sales tax increase
that the NFIB helped defeat. Another 4,000 members in other states
have signed up for 40 campaigns.

   Predicting that the national total will reach 20,000, Faris
said, ``Big Labor won't be the only group that has massive numbers
of campaign workers in the field.''

   With that kind of grassroots intensity, the NFIB's involvement
virtually guarantees that the next Congress will approve at least
some of the summit's requests.

   (Story can end here. Optional add follows.)

   The NFIB has some 600,000 dues-paying firms, 900 employees and
an $85 million annual budget. It was ranked this year as the
nation's most powerful business lobby in a survey of Washington
insiders by Fortune magazine.

   The NFIB doesn't use big soft-money contributions to open
political doors. Its clout arises instead from the NFIB's proven
ability to energize volunteers like summit delegates Jan Triplett
of Texas, Ruth Cole Dusenbury of Colorado and Bobra (CQ) Bush of
Florida.

   ``When I took part in the most recent White House Conference on
Small Business in 1995, I saw that if you come up with resolutions
that make sense, you can have them acted on,'' said Triplett. That
official summit had 2,000 delegates, following preliminary sessions
involving 20,000 people.

   So she will go to this smaller, private summit _ sacrificing
three days from her job as co-director of Entrepreneurs
Association, a for-profit business based in Austin that links small
firms with consultants, investors and new American and foreign
customers.

   Dusenbury's family employs 20 workers at Speer Cushion Co.,
which manufactures replacement seats for off-road equipment in
Holyoke, Colo. Less happy than Triplett with the government's
response to the 1995 event, Dusenbury said she hopes this year's
will be more successful in ``preventing (federal imposition of) a
national health plan.''

   In Boca Raton, Fla., Bush employs 10 people in her consulting
firm, Telcom Corp. She said she squeezes in time for the NFIB
because it ``gets results,'' such as its success last year in
lobbying the Florida legislature to lower the unemployment business
tax.

   ``I had a good record, so my rates were already low,'' she said.
``The reforms reduced my rate to zero _ no payments at all _ for
the entire year of 1998.''

   The NFIB's activism is welcomed and rewarded by Republicans, who
have allowed its lobbyists into strategy sessions in the House.
Though Faris describes the NFIB as ``nonpartisan,'' it almost
always ends up siding with the GOP.

   The most prominent Republican invited to address the summit is
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga. The top Democrat is the less
prominent chief of the agency the NFIB loves to attack, IRS
Commissioner Charles O. Rossotti.

   Since January 1997, NFIB's federal political action committee
has reported that Republicans received all of the $60,500 it gave
to U.S. Senate candidates and 82 percent of the $279,630 it gave to
U.S. House candidates.

   ``We scratch around for suitable Democrats as hard as we can,''
Faris said. ``We had one (Rep. Jane Harman) in California's
Democratic primary for governor, but she got beat.''

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0074 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:10 ',
			header: '
A4541 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PELOSI-CHINA-HNS &LR;      06-11 0613
',
			slug: ' BC-PELOSI-CHINA-HNS ',
			headline: '
PELOSI BLASTS CLINTON ADMINISTRATION'S CHINA POLICY 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Rep. Nancy Pelosi sharpened her attacks on
President Clinton's China policy Thursday, saying the president is
``either in denial or ill-informed about what's going on in
China.''

   The San Francisco Democrat said the Clinton administration
hasn't been aggressive enough in confronting China on three fronts:
nuclear proliferation, trade practices and human rights abuses.

   ``I think it's a flawed and failed policy,'' she said, referring
to the administration's approach. ``How much do we squander of our
leverage by following the Clinton path?''

   Pelosi, who has been harshly critical of the administration for
granting most-favored-nation trading status to China, told
reporters that the ``big business'' community, which wants to keep
trade channels open with China, has Clinton's ear and is driving
U.S. policy ``at the expense of promoting our values.''

   ``Our trade policy is controlled by exporting elites,'' who
``for their piece of the China market are willing to exploit
others,'' Pelosi said.

   Pelosi also said Clinton's planned trip to China June 24 is
``unfortunate,'' and questioned the timing of it.

   ``When a president goes on a trip of this high level he should
have achievable goals,'' Pelosi said. ``I have not seen a trip less
diplomatically prepared for in a long time.''

   The Clinton administration has defended the trip, saying it
needs to engage China on such issues as the financial crisis in
Indonesia and Thailand and the underground nuclear tests by India
and Pakistan.

   The trip is the first by a U.S. president since the 1989
Tiananmen Square crackdown where hundreds of protesters were
killed.

   Pelosi's comments follow a crescendo of attacks by congressional
Republicans on Clinton's China policy.

   More than 160 Republicans have signed a letter urging Clinton to
postpone the trip, spurred into action by an April disclosure that
Clinton had approved the export of American space technology to
China. Republican leaders say the export may have jeopardized U.S.
security by helping China develop its missile capabilities.

   Pelosi said ``there's no question the Chinese capability is
improved by our transfer of technology to them.''

   She handed out 1997 documents from the Office of Naval
Intelligence indicating China has exported technology and supplies
for weapons of mass destruction to Iran and Pakistan.

   She also complained that high Chinese tariffs limit access to
the Chinese market for U.S. products. The U.S. trade deficit with
China has soared from $3 billion in 1989 to $50 billion in 1997 and
is projected to reach more than $63 billion in 1998, according to
the U.S. Department of Commerce.

   Pelosi faulted the Chinese government for holding hundreds of
political prisoners without trial and continuing a ``brutal
repression'' of the religion, people and culture of Tibet.

   Pelosi said Clinton is wrong to talking about the
``post-Tiananmen Square era,'' adding ``We're not in the
post-Tiananmen era'' until political prisoners are freed and others
are able to speak freely.

   Despite China's record on nuclear proliferation, unfair trade
practices and human rights abuses, Clinton has ``catered to them in
every way,'' Pelosi said. ``He's bowed to their every whim.''

   Later, Pelosi said in an interview ``that it's painful for me to
have to be so critical of the administration's policy there.'' She
said she has not spoken to the president ``for about a year'' on
this issue

   .
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service Clients.)  
 By JUDY HOLLAND  
 c.1998 Hearst Newspapers  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Rep. Nancy Pelosi sharpened her attacks on
President Clinton's China policy Thursday, saying the president is
``either in denial or ill-informed about what's going on in
China.''

   The San Francisco Democrat said the Clinton administration
hasn't been aggressive enough in confronting China on three fronts:
nuclear proliferation, trade practices and human rights abuses.

   ``I think it's a flawed and failed policy,'' she said, referring
to the administration's approach. ``How much do we squander of our
leverage by following the Clinton path?''

   Pelosi, who has been harshly critical of the administration for
granting most-favored-nation trading status to China, told
reporters that the ``big business'' community, which wants to keep
trade channels open with China, has Clinton's ear and is driving
U.S. policy ``at the expense of promoting our values.''

   ``Our trade policy is controlled by exporting elites,'' who
``for their piece of the China market are willing to exploit
others,'' Pelosi said.

   Pelosi also said Clinton's planned trip to China June 24 is
``unfortunate,'' and questioned the timing of it.

   ``When a president goes on a trip of this high level he should
have achievable goals,'' Pelosi said. ``I have not seen a trip less
diplomatically prepared for in a long time.''

   The Clinton administration has defended the trip, saying it
needs to engage China on such issues as the financial crisis in
Indonesia and Thailand and the underground nuclear tests by India
and Pakistan.

   The trip is the first by a U.S. president since the 1989
Tiananmen Square crackdown where hundreds of protesters were
killed.

   Pelosi's comments follow a crescendo of attacks by congressional
Republicans on Clinton's China policy.

   More than 160 Republicans have signed a letter urging Clinton to
postpone the trip, spurred into action by an April disclosure that
Clinton had approved the export of American space technology to
China. Republican leaders say the export may have jeopardized U.S.
security by helping China develop its missile capabilities.

   Pelosi said ``there's no question the Chinese capability is
improved by our transfer of technology to them.''

   She handed out 1997 documents from the Office of Naval
Intelligence indicating China has exported technology and supplies
for weapons of mass destruction to Iran and Pakistan.

   She also complained that high Chinese tariffs limit access to
the Chinese market for U.S. products. The U.S. trade deficit with
China has soared from $3 billion in 1989 to $50 billion in 1997 and
is projected to reach more than $63 billion in 1998, according to
the U.S. Department of Commerce.

   Pelosi faulted the Chinese government for holding hundreds of
political prisoners without trial and continuing a ``brutal
repression'' of the religion, people and culture of Tibet.

   Pelosi said Clinton is wrong to talking about the
``post-Tiananmen Square era,'' adding ``We're not in the
post-Tiananmen era'' until political prisoners are freed and others
are able to speak freely.

   Despite China's record on nuclear proliferation, unfair trade
practices and human rights abuses, Clinton has ``catered to them in
every way,'' Pelosi said. ``He's bowed to their every whim.''

   Later, Pelosi said in an interview ``that it's painful for me to
have to be so critical of the administration's policy there.'' She
said she has not spoken to the president ``for about a year'' on
this issue

   .
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0075 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:12 ',
			header: '
A4544 &Cx1f; tad-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SMALL-BIZ-DATA-COX &UR; $A     06-11 0261
',
			slug: ' BC-SMALL-BIZ-DATA-COX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   FACTS ABOUT SMALL BUSINESSES

   Businesses with fewer than 500 workers ...

   Represent 99.7 percent of all employers.

   Employ 53 percent of the private work force.

   Generate 51 percent of private-sector output.

   Provide 47 percent of all sales.

   Get 35 percent of federal contract dollars.

   Supply 30 percent of U.S. exports.

   Account for 28 percent of high-technology jobs.

   Source: Small Business Administration

   CONGRESSIONAL SMALL BUSINESS SUMMIT AT A GLANCE

   Date: June 17-19

   Organizer:

   National Federation of Independent Business .. 600,000 small
firms

   Partners:

   American Farm Bureau Federation ...... 4.7 million families

   American Society of Travel Agents .... 27,000 professionals

   National Restaurant Association ...... 30,000 restaurant owners

   Printing Industries of America ....... 14,000 companies

   Small Business Legislative Council ... 100 trade associations

   Society of American Florists ......... 19,000 businesses

   Sponsors:

   AT&AMP;T, Newsweek, Wells Fargo, Browning Ferris Industries, Gates
McDonald, Cigna, Edward Jones Co., Ernst &AMP; Young, The Hartford,
Illinova, J&AMP;H Marsh &AMP; McLennan (cq), McDonald's Corp., Pepsico,
United Parcel Service.

   Source: Membership reported by organizations.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
',
			body: '

   $ADV13  Moving in (w) Washington and (f)
financial categories.
 &HT;     With SMALL-BIZ. For release Saturday, June 13.
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service  

',
			paragraphs: '
   FACTS ABOUT SMALL BUSINESSES

   Businesses with fewer than 500 workers ...

   Represent 99.7 percent of all employers.

   Employ 53 percent of the private work force.

   Generate 51 percent of private-sector output.

   Provide 47 percent of all sales.

   Get 35 percent of federal contract dollars.

   Supply 30 percent of U.S. exports.

   Account for 28 percent of high-technology jobs.

   Source: Small Business Administration

   CONGRESSIONAL SMALL BUSINESS SUMMIT AT A GLANCE

   Date: June 17-19

   Organizer:

   National Federation of Independent Business .. 600,000 small
firms

   Partners:

   American Farm Bureau Federation ...... 4.7 million families

   American Society of Travel Agents .... 27,000 professionals

   National Restaurant Association ...... 30,000 restaurant owners

   Printing Industries of America ....... 14,000 companies

   Small Business Legislative Council ... 100 trade associations

   Society of American Florists ......... 19,000 businesses

   Sponsors:

   AT&AMP;T, Newsweek, Wells Fargo, Browning Ferris Industries, Gates
McDonald, Cigna, Edward Jones Co., Ernst &AMP; Young, The Hartford,
Illinova, J&AMP;H Marsh &AMP; McLennan (cq), McDonald's Corp., Pepsico,
United Parcel Service.

   Source: Membership reported by organizations.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0076 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:13 ',
			header: '
A4547 &Cx1f; tad-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SMALL-BIZ-DATA-COX &UR; $A     06-11 0261
',
			slug: ' BC-SMALL-BIZ-DATA-COX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   FACTS ABOUT SMALL BUSINESSES

   Businesses with fewer than 500 workers ...

   Represent 99.7 percent of all employers.

   Employ 53 percent of the private work force.

   Generate 51 percent of private-sector output.

   Provide 47 percent of all sales.

   Get 35 percent of federal contract dollars.

   Supply 30 percent of U.S. exports.

   Account for 28 percent of high-technology jobs.

   Source: Small Business Administration

   CONGRESSIONAL SMALL BUSINESS SUMMIT AT A GLANCE

   Date: June 17-19

   Organizer:

   National Federation of Independent Business .. 600,000 small
firms

   Partners:

   American Farm Bureau Federation ...... 4.7 million families

   American Society of Travel Agents .... 27,000 professionals

   National Restaurant Association ...... 30,000 restaurant owners

   Printing Industries of America ....... 14,000 companies

   Small Business Legislative Council ... 100 trade associations

   Society of American Florists ......... 19,000 businesses

   Sponsors:

   AT&AMP;T, Newsweek, Wells Fargo, Browning Ferris Industries, Gates
McDonald, Cigna, Edward Jones Co., Ernst &AMP; Young, The Hartford,
Illinova, J&AMP;H Marsh &AMP; McLennan (cq), McDonald's Corp., Pepsico,
United Parcel Service.

   Source: Membership reported by organizations.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
',
			body: '

   $ADV13  Moving in (w) Washington and (f)
financial categories.
 &HT;     With SMALL-BIZ. For release Saturday, June 13.
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service  

',
			paragraphs: '
   FACTS ABOUT SMALL BUSINESSES

   Businesses with fewer than 500 workers ...

   Represent 99.7 percent of all employers.

   Employ 53 percent of the private work force.

   Generate 51 percent of private-sector output.

   Provide 47 percent of all sales.

   Get 35 percent of federal contract dollars.

   Supply 30 percent of U.S. exports.

   Account for 28 percent of high-technology jobs.

   Source: Small Business Administration

   CONGRESSIONAL SMALL BUSINESS SUMMIT AT A GLANCE

   Date: June 17-19

   Organizer:

   National Federation of Independent Business .. 600,000 small
firms

   Partners:

   American Farm Bureau Federation ...... 4.7 million families

   American Society of Travel Agents .... 27,000 professionals

   National Restaurant Association ...... 30,000 restaurant owners

   Printing Industries of America ....... 14,000 companies

   Small Business Legislative Council ... 100 trade associations

   Society of American Florists ......... 19,000 businesses

   Sponsors:

   AT&AMP;T, Newsweek, Wells Fargo, Browning Ferris Industries, Gates
McDonald, Cigna, Edward Jones Co., Ernst &AMP; Young, The Hartford,
Illinova, J&AMP;H Marsh &AMP; McLennan (cq), McDonald's Corp., Pepsico,
United Parcel Service.

   Source: Membership reported by organizations.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0077 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:31 ',
			header: '
A4562 &Cx1f; tab-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-A-MEDICINAL-PLANET-NY     06-11 0866
',
			slug: ' BC-A-MEDICINAL-PLANET-NYTSF ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   _ Taxol, the potent breast-cancer drug, was discovered in yew
tree bark.

   _ Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   .................................................

   Why should people care about protecting endangered species
around the world? BECAUSE NO ONE KNOWS WHERE THE NEXT SCIENTIFIC
BREAKTHROUGH WILL BE FOUND ... AND INADVERTENTLY DESTROYING EARTH'S
SPECIES MIGHT MEAN IT WILL NEVER BE FOUND, reports Times reporter
Andrew C. Revkin in an article appropriately titled ``WHY CARE?''

   .................................................

   ``Why Care'' is one of five articles culled from ''NATURAL
ORDER,'' a special news section devoted to biodiversity and
environmental issues, from The New York Times.

   TAKE A LOOK! Articles -- plus art, available electronically --
from this section can be purchased from The New York Times
Syndicate for newspapers to create their own environmentally themed
supplements!

   Every year, Americans cite protection of the environment as one
of the most pressing issues facing the nation and the world. In
response to this concern, The New York Times' ''Natural Order''
supplement covers a range of topics relating to the Earth's rich
variety of species and ecosystems.

   For purchase information ...

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Latin America: Sales Executive OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles
at (310) 996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)

   Here's the breakdown:

   &UR; LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By WILLIAM K. STEVENS &LR;  &QL;

   There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. &QL;

   The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By KEITH SCHNEIDER &LR;  &QL;

   In 1991, reporter Keith Schneider and his wife became the proud
owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in Manistee
County, Mich. ``I finally understood why Adam was so enticed by
Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through our
orchard,'' he writes. One of first tasks was to learn more about
the apple orchards that lay before him _ and the abundant, juicy
fruit. In this feature, Schneider, the executive director of the
Michigan Land Use Institute and a former environmental reporter for
The Times, describes what he discovered. ``Preserving a diversity
of strains may be part of a global solution,'' he writes. ``But for
us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures that we can't
find them anywhere else.''

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; WHY CARE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By ANDREW C. REVKIN &LR;  &QL;

   Described above ...

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By PETER PASSELL &QL;

   An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF

   Many Thanks!

   _ The New York Times Syndicate.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   _ Taxol, the potent breast-cancer drug, was discovered in yew
tree bark.

   _ Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   .................................................

   Why should people care about protecting endangered species
around the world? BECAUSE NO ONE KNOWS WHERE THE NEXT SCIENTIFIC
BREAKTHROUGH WILL BE FOUND ... AND INADVERTENTLY DESTROYING EARTH'S
SPECIES MIGHT MEAN IT WILL NEVER BE FOUND, reports Times reporter
Andrew C. Revkin in an article appropriately titled ``WHY CARE?''

   .................................................

   ``Why Care'' is one of five articles culled from ''NATURAL
ORDER,'' a special news section devoted to biodiversity and
environmental issues, from The New York Times.

   TAKE A LOOK! Articles -- plus art, available electronically --
from this section can be purchased from The New York Times
Syndicate for newspapers to create their own environmentally themed
supplements!

   Every year, Americans cite protection of the environment as one
of the most pressing issues facing the nation and the world. In
response to this concern, The New York Times' ''Natural Order''
supplement covers a range of topics relating to the Earth's rich
variety of species and ecosystems.

   For purchase information ...

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Latin America: Sales Executive OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles
at (310) 996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)

   Here's the breakdown:

   &UR; LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By WILLIAM K. STEVENS &LR;  &QL;

   There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. &QL;

   The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By KEITH SCHNEIDER &LR;  &QL;

   In 1991, reporter Keith Schneider and his wife became the proud
owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in Manistee
County, Mich. ``I finally understood why Adam was so enticed by
Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through our
orchard,'' he writes. One of first tasks was to learn more about
the apple orchards that lay before him _ and the abundant, juicy
fruit. In this feature, Schneider, the executive director of the
Michigan Land Use Institute and a former environmental reporter for
The Times, describes what he discovered. ``Preserving a diversity
of strains may be part of a global solution,'' he writes. ``But for
us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures that we can't
find them anywhere else.''

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; WHY CARE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By ANDREW C. REVKIN &LR;  &QL;

   Described above ...

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By PETER PASSELL &QL;

   An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF

   Many Thanks!

   _ The New York Times Syndicate.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0078 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:31 ',
			header: '
A4563 &Cx1f; tab-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-A-MEDICINAL-PLANET-NY     06-11 0866
',
			slug: ' BC-A-MEDICINAL-PLANET-NYTSF ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   _ Taxol, the potent breast-cancer drug, was discovered in yew
tree bark.

   _ Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   .................................................

   Why should people care about protecting endangered species
around the world? BECAUSE NO ONE KNOWS WHERE THE NEXT SCIENTIFIC
BREAKTHROUGH WILL BE FOUND ... AND INADVERTENTLY DESTROYING EARTH'S
SPECIES MIGHT MEAN IT WILL NEVER BE FOUND, reports Times reporter
Andrew C. Revkin in an article appropriately titled ``WHY CARE?''

   .................................................

   ``Why Care'' is one of five articles culled from ''NATURAL
ORDER,'' a special news section devoted to biodiversity and
environmental issues, from The New York Times.

   TAKE A LOOK! Articles -- plus art, available electronically --
from this section can be purchased from The New York Times
Syndicate for newspapers to create their own environmentally themed
supplements!

   Every year, Americans cite protection of the environment as one
of the most pressing issues facing the nation and the world. In
response to this concern, The New York Times' ''Natural Order''
supplement covers a range of topics relating to the Earth's rich
variety of species and ecosystems.

   For purchase information ...

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Latin America: Sales Executive OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles
at (310) 996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)

   Here's the breakdown:

   &UR; LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By WILLIAM K. STEVENS &LR;  &QL;

   There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. &QL;

   The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By KEITH SCHNEIDER &LR;  &QL;

   In 1991, reporter Keith Schneider and his wife became the proud
owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in Manistee
County, Mich. ``I finally understood why Adam was so enticed by
Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through our
orchard,'' he writes. One of first tasks was to learn more about
the apple orchards that lay before him _ and the abundant, juicy
fruit. In this feature, Schneider, the executive director of the
Michigan Land Use Institute and a former environmental reporter for
The Times, describes what he discovered. ``Preserving a diversity
of strains may be part of a global solution,'' he writes. ``But for
us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures that we can't
find them anywhere else.''

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; WHY CARE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By ANDREW C. REVKIN &LR;  &QL;

   Described above ...

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By PETER PASSELL &QL;

   An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF

   Many Thanks!

   _ The New York Times Syndicate.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   _ Taxol, the potent breast-cancer drug, was discovered in yew
tree bark.

   _ Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   .................................................

   Why should people care about protecting endangered species
around the world? BECAUSE NO ONE KNOWS WHERE THE NEXT SCIENTIFIC
BREAKTHROUGH WILL BE FOUND ... AND INADVERTENTLY DESTROYING EARTH'S
SPECIES MIGHT MEAN IT WILL NEVER BE FOUND, reports Times reporter
Andrew C. Revkin in an article appropriately titled ``WHY CARE?''

   .................................................

   ``Why Care'' is one of five articles culled from ''NATURAL
ORDER,'' a special news section devoted to biodiversity and
environmental issues, from The New York Times.

   TAKE A LOOK! Articles -- plus art, available electronically --
from this section can be purchased from The New York Times
Syndicate for newspapers to create their own environmentally themed
supplements!

   Every year, Americans cite protection of the environment as one
of the most pressing issues facing the nation and the world. In
response to this concern, The New York Times' ''Natural Order''
supplement covers a range of topics relating to the Earth's rich
variety of species and ecosystems.

   For purchase information ...

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Latin America: Sales Executive OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles
at (310) 996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)

   Here's the breakdown:

   &UR; LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By WILLIAM K. STEVENS &LR;  &QL;

   There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. &QL;

   The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By KEITH SCHNEIDER &LR;  &QL;

   In 1991, reporter Keith Schneider and his wife became the proud
owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in Manistee
County, Mich. ``I finally understood why Adam was so enticed by
Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through our
orchard,'' he writes. One of first tasks was to learn more about
the apple orchards that lay before him _ and the abundant, juicy
fruit. In this feature, Schneider, the executive director of the
Michigan Land Use Institute and a former environmental reporter for
The Times, describes what he discovered. ``Preserving a diversity
of strains may be part of a global solution,'' he writes. ``But for
us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures that we can't
find them anywhere else.''

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; WHY CARE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By ANDREW C. REVKIN &LR;  &QL;

   Described above ...

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By PETER PASSELL &QL;

   An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF

   Many Thanks!

   _ The New York Times Syndicate.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0079 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:31 ',
			header: '
A4564 &Cx1f; tab-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-A-MEDICINAL-PLANET-NY     06-11 0866
',
			slug: ' BC-A-MEDICINAL-PLANET-NYTSF ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   _ Taxol, the potent breast-cancer drug, was discovered in yew
tree bark.

   _ Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   .................................................

   Why should people care about protecting endangered species
around the world? BECAUSE NO ONE KNOWS WHERE THE NEXT SCIENTIFIC
BREAKTHROUGH WILL BE FOUND ... AND INADVERTENTLY DESTROYING EARTH'S
SPECIES MIGHT MEAN IT WILL NEVER BE FOUND, reports Times reporter
Andrew C. Revkin in an article appropriately titled ``WHY CARE?''

   .................................................

   ``Why Care'' is one of five articles culled from ''NATURAL
ORDER,'' a special news section devoted to biodiversity and
environmental issues, from The New York Times.

   TAKE A LOOK! Articles -- plus art, available electronically --
from this section can be purchased from The New York Times
Syndicate for newspapers to create their own environmentally themed
supplements!

   Every year, Americans cite protection of the environment as one
of the most pressing issues facing the nation and the world. In
response to this concern, The New York Times' ''Natural Order''
supplement covers a range of topics relating to the Earth's rich
variety of species and ecosystems.

   For purchase information ...

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Latin America: Sales Executive OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles
at (310) 996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)

   Here's the breakdown:

   &UR; LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By WILLIAM K. STEVENS &LR;  &QL;

   There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. &QL;

   The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By KEITH SCHNEIDER &LR;  &QL;

   In 1991, reporter Keith Schneider and his wife became the proud
owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in Manistee
County, Mich. ``I finally understood why Adam was so enticed by
Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through our
orchard,'' he writes. One of first tasks was to learn more about
the apple orchards that lay before him _ and the abundant, juicy
fruit. In this feature, Schneider, the executive director of the
Michigan Land Use Institute and a former environmental reporter for
The Times, describes what he discovered. ``Preserving a diversity
of strains may be part of a global solution,'' he writes. ``But for
us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures that we can't
find them anywhere else.''

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; WHY CARE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By ANDREW C. REVKIN &LR;  &QL;

   Described above ...

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By PETER PASSELL &QL;

   An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF

   Many Thanks!

   _ The New York Times Syndicate.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   _ Taxol, the potent breast-cancer drug, was discovered in yew
tree bark.

   _ Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   .................................................

   Why should people care about protecting endangered species
around the world? BECAUSE NO ONE KNOWS WHERE THE NEXT SCIENTIFIC
BREAKTHROUGH WILL BE FOUND ... AND INADVERTENTLY DESTROYING EARTH'S
SPECIES MIGHT MEAN IT WILL NEVER BE FOUND, reports Times reporter
Andrew C. Revkin in an article appropriately titled ``WHY CARE?''

   .................................................

   ``Why Care'' is one of five articles culled from ''NATURAL
ORDER,'' a special news section devoted to biodiversity and
environmental issues, from The New York Times.

   TAKE A LOOK! Articles -- plus art, available electronically --
from this section can be purchased from The New York Times
Syndicate for newspapers to create their own environmentally themed
supplements!

   Every year, Americans cite protection of the environment as one
of the most pressing issues facing the nation and the world. In
response to this concern, The New York Times' ''Natural Order''
supplement covers a range of topics relating to the Earth's rich
variety of species and ecosystems.

   For purchase information ...

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Latin America: Sales Executive OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles
at (310) 996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)

   Here's the breakdown:

   &UR; LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By WILLIAM K. STEVENS &LR;  &QL;

   There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. &QL;

   The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By KEITH SCHNEIDER &LR;  &QL;

   In 1991, reporter Keith Schneider and his wife became the proud
owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in Manistee
County, Mich. ``I finally understood why Adam was so enticed by
Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through our
orchard,'' he writes. One of first tasks was to learn more about
the apple orchards that lay before him _ and the abundant, juicy
fruit. In this feature, Schneider, the executive director of the
Michigan Land Use Institute and a former environmental reporter for
The Times, describes what he discovered. ``Preserving a diversity
of strains may be part of a global solution,'' he writes. ``But for
us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures that we can't
find them anywhere else.''

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; WHY CARE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By ANDREW C. REVKIN &LR;  &QL;

   Described above ...

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By PETER PASSELL &QL;

   An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF

   Many Thanks!

   _ The New York Times Syndicate.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0080 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:31 ',
			header: '
A4565 &Cx1f; tab-z
u k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-A-MEDICINAL-PLANET-NY     06-11 0866
',
			slug: ' BC-A-MEDICINAL-PLANET-NYTSF ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   _ Taxol, the potent breast-cancer drug, was discovered in yew
tree bark.

   _ Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   .................................................

   Why should people care about protecting endangered species
around the world? BECAUSE NO ONE KNOWS WHERE THE NEXT SCIENTIFIC
BREAKTHROUGH WILL BE FOUND ... AND INADVERTENTLY DESTROYING EARTH'S
SPECIES MIGHT MEAN IT WILL NEVER BE FOUND, reports Times reporter
Andrew C. Revkin in an article appropriately titled ``WHY CARE?''

   .................................................

   ``Why Care'' is one of five articles culled from ''NATURAL
ORDER,'' a special news section devoted to biodiversity and
environmental issues, from The New York Times.

   TAKE A LOOK! Articles -- plus art, available electronically --
from this section can be purchased from The New York Times
Syndicate for newspapers to create their own environmentally themed
supplements!

   Every year, Americans cite protection of the environment as one
of the most pressing issues facing the nation and the world. In
response to this concern, The New York Times' ''Natural Order''
supplement covers a range of topics relating to the Earth's rich
variety of species and ecosystems.

   For purchase information ...

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Latin America: Sales Executive OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles
at (310) 996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)

   Here's the breakdown:

   &UR; LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By WILLIAM K. STEVENS &LR;  &QL;

   There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. &QL;

   The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By KEITH SCHNEIDER &LR;  &QL;

   In 1991, reporter Keith Schneider and his wife became the proud
owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in Manistee
County, Mich. ``I finally understood why Adam was so enticed by
Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through our
orchard,'' he writes. One of first tasks was to learn more about
the apple orchards that lay before him _ and the abundant, juicy
fruit. In this feature, Schneider, the executive director of the
Michigan Land Use Institute and a former environmental reporter for
The Times, describes what he discovered. ``Preserving a diversity
of strains may be part of a global solution,'' he writes. ``But for
us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures that we can't
find them anywhere else.''

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; WHY CARE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By ANDREW C. REVKIN &LR;  &QL;

   Described above ...

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By PETER PASSELL &QL;

   An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF

   Many Thanks!

   _ The New York Times Syndicate.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   _ Taxol, the potent breast-cancer drug, was discovered in yew
tree bark.

   _ Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   .................................................

   Why should people care about protecting endangered species
around the world? BECAUSE NO ONE KNOWS WHERE THE NEXT SCIENTIFIC
BREAKTHROUGH WILL BE FOUND ... AND INADVERTENTLY DESTROYING EARTH'S
SPECIES MIGHT MEAN IT WILL NEVER BE FOUND, reports Times reporter
Andrew C. Revkin in an article appropriately titled ``WHY CARE?''

   .................................................

   ``Why Care'' is one of five articles culled from ''NATURAL
ORDER,'' a special news section devoted to biodiversity and
environmental issues, from The New York Times.

   TAKE A LOOK! Articles -- plus art, available electronically --
from this section can be purchased from The New York Times
Syndicate for newspapers to create their own environmentally themed
supplements!

   Every year, Americans cite protection of the environment as one
of the most pressing issues facing the nation and the world. In
response to this concern, The New York Times' ''Natural Order''
supplement covers a range of topics relating to the Earth's rich
variety of species and ecosystems.

   For purchase information ...

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Latin America: Sales Executive OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles
at (310) 996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)

   Here's the breakdown:

   &UR; LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By WILLIAM K. STEVENS &LR;  &QL;

   There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. &QL;

   The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By KEITH SCHNEIDER &LR;  &QL;

   In 1991, reporter Keith Schneider and his wife became the proud
owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in Manistee
County, Mich. ``I finally understood why Adam was so enticed by
Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through our
orchard,'' he writes. One of first tasks was to learn more about
the apple orchards that lay before him _ and the abundant, juicy
fruit. In this feature, Schneider, the executive director of the
Michigan Land Use Institute and a former environmental reporter for
The Times, describes what he discovered. ``Preserving a diversity
of strains may be part of a global solution,'' he writes. ``But for
us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures that we can't
find them anywhere else.''

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; WHY CARE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By ANDREW C. REVKIN &LR;  &QL;

   Described above ...

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By PETER PASSELL &QL;

   An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF

   Many Thanks!

   _ The New York Times Syndicate.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0081 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:31 ',
			header: '
A4566 &Cx1f; tab-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-A-MEDICINAL-PLANET-NY     06-11 0866
',
			slug: ' BC-A-MEDICINAL-PLANET-NYTSF ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   _ Taxol, the potent breast-cancer drug, was discovered in yew
tree bark.

   _ Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   .................................................

   Why should people care about protecting endangered species
around the world? BECAUSE NO ONE KNOWS WHERE THE NEXT SCIENTIFIC
BREAKTHROUGH WILL BE FOUND ... AND INADVERTENTLY DESTROYING EARTH'S
SPECIES MIGHT MEAN IT WILL NEVER BE FOUND, reports Times reporter
Andrew C. Revkin in an article appropriately titled ``WHY CARE?''

   .................................................

   ``Why Care'' is one of five articles culled from ''NATURAL
ORDER,'' a special news section devoted to biodiversity and
environmental issues, from The New York Times.

   TAKE A LOOK! Articles -- plus art, available electronically --
from this section can be purchased from The New York Times
Syndicate for newspapers to create their own environmentally themed
supplements!

   Every year, Americans cite protection of the environment as one
of the most pressing issues facing the nation and the world. In
response to this concern, The New York Times' ''Natural Order''
supplement covers a range of topics relating to the Earth's rich
variety of species and ecosystems.

   For purchase information ...

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Latin America: Sales Executive OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles
at (310) 996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)

   Here's the breakdown:

   &UR; LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By WILLIAM K. STEVENS &LR;  &QL;

   There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. &QL;

   The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By KEITH SCHNEIDER &LR;  &QL;

   In 1991, reporter Keith Schneider and his wife became the proud
owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in Manistee
County, Mich. ``I finally understood why Adam was so enticed by
Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through our
orchard,'' he writes. One of first tasks was to learn more about
the apple orchards that lay before him _ and the abundant, juicy
fruit. In this feature, Schneider, the executive director of the
Michigan Land Use Institute and a former environmental reporter for
The Times, describes what he discovered. ``Preserving a diversity
of strains may be part of a global solution,'' he writes. ``But for
us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures that we can't
find them anywhere else.''

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; WHY CARE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By ANDREW C. REVKIN &LR;  &QL;

   Described above ...

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By PETER PASSELL &QL;

   An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF

   Many Thanks!

   _ The New York Times Syndicate.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   _ Taxol, the potent breast-cancer drug, was discovered in yew
tree bark.

   _ Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   .................................................

   Why should people care about protecting endangered species
around the world? BECAUSE NO ONE KNOWS WHERE THE NEXT SCIENTIFIC
BREAKTHROUGH WILL BE FOUND ... AND INADVERTENTLY DESTROYING EARTH'S
SPECIES MIGHT MEAN IT WILL NEVER BE FOUND, reports Times reporter
Andrew C. Revkin in an article appropriately titled ``WHY CARE?''

   .................................................

   ``Why Care'' is one of five articles culled from ''NATURAL
ORDER,'' a special news section devoted to biodiversity and
environmental issues, from The New York Times.

   TAKE A LOOK! Articles -- plus art, available electronically --
from this section can be purchased from The New York Times
Syndicate for newspapers to create their own environmentally themed
supplements!

   Every year, Americans cite protection of the environment as one
of the most pressing issues facing the nation and the world. In
response to this concern, The New York Times' ''Natural Order''
supplement covers a range of topics relating to the Earth's rich
variety of species and ecosystems.

   For purchase information ...

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Latin America: Sales Executive OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles
at (310) 996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)

   Here's the breakdown:

   &UR; LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By WILLIAM K. STEVENS &LR;  &QL;

   There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. &QL;

   The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By KEITH SCHNEIDER &LR;  &QL;

   In 1991, reporter Keith Schneider and his wife became the proud
owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in Manistee
County, Mich. ``I finally understood why Adam was so enticed by
Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through our
orchard,'' he writes. One of first tasks was to learn more about
the apple orchards that lay before him _ and the abundant, juicy
fruit. In this feature, Schneider, the executive director of the
Michigan Land Use Institute and a former environmental reporter for
The Times, describes what he discovered. ``Preserving a diversity
of strains may be part of a global solution,'' he writes. ``But for
us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures that we can't
find them anywhere else.''

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; WHY CARE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By ANDREW C. REVKIN &LR;  &QL;

   Described above ...

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By PETER PASSELL &QL;

   An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF

   Many Thanks!

   _ The New York Times Syndicate.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0082 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:31 ',
			header: '
A4567 &Cx1f; tab-z
u c &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-A-MEDICINAL-PLANET-NY     06-11 0866
',
			slug: ' BC-A-MEDICINAL-PLANET-NYTSF ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   _ Taxol, the potent breast-cancer drug, was discovered in yew
tree bark.

   _ Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   .................................................

   Why should people care about protecting endangered species
around the world? BECAUSE NO ONE KNOWS WHERE THE NEXT SCIENTIFIC
BREAKTHROUGH WILL BE FOUND ... AND INADVERTENTLY DESTROYING EARTH'S
SPECIES MIGHT MEAN IT WILL NEVER BE FOUND, reports Times reporter
Andrew C. Revkin in an article appropriately titled ``WHY CARE?''

   .................................................

   ``Why Care'' is one of five articles culled from ''NATURAL
ORDER,'' a special news section devoted to biodiversity and
environmental issues, from The New York Times.

   TAKE A LOOK! Articles -- plus art, available electronically --
from this section can be purchased from The New York Times
Syndicate for newspapers to create their own environmentally themed
supplements!

   Every year, Americans cite protection of the environment as one
of the most pressing issues facing the nation and the world. In
response to this concern, The New York Times' ''Natural Order''
supplement covers a range of topics relating to the Earth's rich
variety of species and ecosystems.

   For purchase information ...

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Latin America: Sales Executive OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles
at (310) 996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)

   Here's the breakdown:

   &UR; LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By WILLIAM K. STEVENS &LR;  &QL;

   There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. &QL;

   The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By KEITH SCHNEIDER &LR;  &QL;

   In 1991, reporter Keith Schneider and his wife became the proud
owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in Manistee
County, Mich. ``I finally understood why Adam was so enticed by
Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through our
orchard,'' he writes. One of first tasks was to learn more about
the apple orchards that lay before him _ and the abundant, juicy
fruit. In this feature, Schneider, the executive director of the
Michigan Land Use Institute and a former environmental reporter for
The Times, describes what he discovered. ``Preserving a diversity
of strains may be part of a global solution,'' he writes. ``But for
us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures that we can't
find them anywhere else.''

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; WHY CARE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By ANDREW C. REVKIN &LR;  &QL;

   Described above ...

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By PETER PASSELL &QL;

   An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF

   Many Thanks!

   _ The New York Times Syndicate.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   _ Taxol, the potent breast-cancer drug, was discovered in yew
tree bark.

   _ Powerful antibiotics have been derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   .................................................

   Why should people care about protecting endangered species
around the world? BECAUSE NO ONE KNOWS WHERE THE NEXT SCIENTIFIC
BREAKTHROUGH WILL BE FOUND ... AND INADVERTENTLY DESTROYING EARTH'S
SPECIES MIGHT MEAN IT WILL NEVER BE FOUND, reports Times reporter
Andrew C. Revkin in an article appropriately titled ``WHY CARE?''

   .................................................

   ``Why Care'' is one of five articles culled from ''NATURAL
ORDER,'' a special news section devoted to biodiversity and
environmental issues, from The New York Times.

   TAKE A LOOK! Articles -- plus art, available electronically --
from this section can be purchased from The New York Times
Syndicate for newspapers to create their own environmentally themed
supplements!

   Every year, Americans cite protection of the environment as one
of the most pressing issues facing the nation and the world. In
response to this concern, The New York Times' ''Natural Order''
supplement covers a range of topics relating to the Earth's rich
variety of species and ecosystems.

   For purchase information ...

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: Sales Executive CONNIE WHITE in Kansas
City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Latin America: Sales Executive OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles
at (310) 996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)

   Here's the breakdown:

   &UR; LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By WILLIAM K. STEVENS &LR;  &QL;

   There may be more kinds of creatures living on Earth now than
ever before in the planet's 4.6-billion-year history. Or at least
there were that many before human beings appeared and began
changing the rules. Homo sapiens have become so powerful an
influence on the biosphere that many experts fear they are
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a major extinction. William K. Stevens,
who covers environmental sciences for The New York Times, reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial view -- of
land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the Weyerhauser timber
company, which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. &QL;

   The Endangered Species Act is a law evolving so rapidly that it
almost resembles a new species. In the old days, it was mostly used
to block development and preserve the habitat of a species close to
extinction. Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious
and subtler, as the government and landowners design management
plans to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of
private land, but at the same time not block development. John H.
Cushman Jr., The Times' environmental correspondent in Washington,
reports.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ART FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a couple harvesting
heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in Manistee County, Mich.,
which is discussed in this feature. &QL; 
 &UR; By KEITH SCHNEIDER &LR;  &QL;

   In 1991, reporter Keith Schneider and his wife became the proud
owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in Manistee
County, Mich. ``I finally understood why Adam was so enticed by
Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through our
orchard,'' he writes. One of first tasks was to learn more about
the apple orchards that lay before him _ and the abundant, juicy
fruit. In this feature, Schneider, the executive director of the
Michigan Land Use Institute and a former environmental reporter for
The Times, describes what he discovered. ``Preserving a diversity
of strains may be part of a global solution,'' he writes. ``But for
us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures that we can't
find them anywhere else.''

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; WHY CARE? &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By ANDREW C. REVKIN &LR;  &QL;

   Described above ...

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF

   -------------------------------------------------

   &UR; FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; By PETER PASSELL &QL;

   An economist in the rain forest? How will that help preserve our
planet's biodiversity? Well, it couldn't hurt, reports Peter
Passell, who writes about economics for The New York Times. For
example, economists can help people to think seriously about how to
provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   SLUGGED: BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF

   Many Thanks!

   _ The New York Times Syndicate.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0083 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:32 ',
			header: '
A4574 &Cx1f; tab-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL     06-11 1549
',
			slug: ' BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? 
',
			trailer: '
   It is difficult to know for sure, but there may be more kinds of
creatures living on Earth now than ever before in the planet's
4.6-billion-year history. Or at least there were that many before
human beings appeared very late in the game and began changing the
rules.

   At first, life consisted of microscopic, single-cell balls, rods
and filaments. For perhaps 3 billion years, these microbes were all
the life there was on this wet, stark and rocky world.

   Not until about 600 million years ago, after the Earth emerged
from its deepest ice age ever, did bigger species evolve. Then
life's variety exploded.

   The expansion of biological variety has been on an upward curve
since then. From sequoias and nematodes to fungi and elephants,
millions of species populate the world.

   The curve has not been a smooth one. At least five times in the
last 600 million years, planetwide environmental cataclysms, like
drastic climatic change and colliding asteroids, have wiped out
whole families of organisms. Such events have threatened to erase
life, but succeeded only in partly clearing the stage for new and
different families.

   Between extinction spasms, in the background hum of evolution,
single species winked out here and there to be replaced by new
ones.

   Because of this continuous turnover, scientists believe, more
than 95 percent of all species that have ever existed are extinct
today.

   Now one species, Homo sapiens, has become so powerful an
influence on the rest of the biosphere that many experts fear it is
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a sixth major extinction.

   If so, it is happening simply because people are acting
naturally _ harvesting wild species to burn, eat or sell;
expropriating and destroying wild habitat to make way for human
works like farms, cities and suburbs; moving plants and animals
around the globe in a mix-and-match game in which a relatively few,
superadaptable plant and animal species are crowding out a larger
number of less hardy ones.

   The pressure is likely to intensify as the Earth's human
population, now about 6 billion, approaches a doubling before
leveling off in perhaps a century.

   The impact of the numbers is magnified greatly by technology's
power to shape the landscape and exploit the oceans.

   This combination has been especially worrisome for the rain
forests, where most of the world's species are found and
large-scale clearing is under way.

   No one knows exactly how many species live on Earth. About 1.4
million have been described and named, but biologists believe there
are at least 10 times that many.

   And no one can put precise numbers on the rate of present-day
extinction, although several scientists have made rough stabs.

   One relatively conservative estimate says that for some species
found only in one locality, the rate may be 100 to 1,000 times the
normal ``background'' rate between mass extinctions of the past.

   Few scientists who study the situation doubt that humans are
driving other creatures toward extinction at a growing rate.

   To whatever extent they are doing so, people are reducing the
variety of life on Earth _ what conservation biologists now call
biological diversity, or just biodiversity.

   Biodiversity is not merely a matter of different kinds of
species. It applies to many layers of nature on different scales.

   On one level, it is expressed by the number of genetic
variations within a species, the raw material of evolution; destroy
the wrong genes, and the species might not be able to adapt and
survive in the long run.

   On a broader scale, biodiversity is expressed in the bewildering
variety of types of ecosystems, the tightly interwoven communities
of plants, animals and microbes that are nature's working units.

   Forests, wetlands and grasslands are examples of one level of
ecosystem variety, and each comprises numerous interconnected
subunits, right down to the microscopic. It is these interconnected
communities that constitute the fabric of life on Earth.

   To whatever degree human activity is narrowing the variety of
life, scientists say, it is doing so on all levels.

   Why does this matter? Conservationists and biologists offer a
number of answers. On the practical level, wild species provide the
raw material for medicine and food. Who knows what undiscovered
plant might provide a cure for our era's killer diseases?

   Acting together, wild species support the human economy by
providing an array of services like water purification, soil
formation, pollination, flood control and, in our age, outdoor
recreation.

   On a more fundamental level, they support human life: Without
humans, the biosphere would not miss a beat. But without insects
and microbes, humans would disappear quickly.

   Some experts say natural systems are intrinsic to psychological
well-being.

   Finally, many conservationists assert a moral imperative: It is
simply wrong to destroy large slices of creation.

   Moral arguments aside, are all species equally valuable?
Scientists believe that in many ecosystems, a few keystone species
hold everything together, and that if they are removed, the system
will collapse and all the other species in it will disappear.

   The problem is that in most instances, no one is sure which are
the crucial species.

   What's more, scientists have found, the greater the variety of
plant species in an ecosystem, the more productive it is over all.

   So, conservationists argue, it is necessary to save as many
species as possible. They have their work cut out for them, since
the catalogue of imperilment is long.

   In April, the World Conservation Union, in Gland, Switzerland,
added nearly 34,000 plant species _ one of every eight known plant
species in the world, and nearly one of three in the United States
_ to its growing ``red list'' of imperiled organisms.

   In possibly an even more important gauge of overall biological
vitality, an earlier assessment, by United States Federal
Government scientists, found that vast stretches of the natural
landscape, amounting to at least half the area of the contiguous 48
states, had declined to the point of endangerment.

   This report, the first ever done on the state of health of the
nation's individual ecosystems, found that 30 of them, some of
which dominated vast regions before the arrival of Europeans, have
been destroyed or degraded by 98 percent.

   Not even the trackless ocean is immune. Overfishing has pushed
some marine species _ the cod and the blue-fin tuna, for example _
to the brink of commercial extinction.

   Coral reefs in some parts of the world are under severe assault;
in parts of Asia, fishermen squirt sodium cyanide into the water to
stun fish, in doses strong enough to kill the corals that maintain
the reef ecosystem.

   The abundant evidence for the threat to biodiversity should not
be overinterpreted. The recent red-listing of plants includes many
simply because they are rare. While many may be vulnerable, humans
do not threaten them just yet.

   The red list of plants can be read another way, too: While one
in eight plants was judged imperiled, almost 90 percent were not.

   On the action front, there are bright spots. Over the last
century, a worldwide conservation movement has struggled to stem
the human assault on nature.

   The United States' Endangered Species Act is regarded as the
strongest protection law in the world.

   In the last six years, more than 160 countries, not including
the United States, have ratified a treaty obligating governments to
protect plant and animal species.

   But victories are scattered or overturned. Recently, a federal
court, for instance, invalidated the Yellowstone wolf restoration
project, and a legal battle is under way.

   Meanwhile, habitat continues to disappear at an
``unprecedented'' rate, according to the United Nations. The
magnitude of the sixth extinction, if that is what is occurring,
will become clear in time.

   The 21st century may reveal whether the clever brain bequeathed
to Homo sapiens by the evolution of biological diversity can be
used to save diversity as well as destroy it.

   -----

   &UR; (William K. Stevens covers environmental sciences for The New
York Times.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (This is one of five special ``one-shot'' features culled from
NATURAL ORDER, a special news section from The New York Times
devoted to biodiversity and environmental issues. For purchase
information _ THE RATE IS NOT PROHIBITIVE _ contact one of these
New York Times Syndicate sales representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``l'' lifestyle news and ``a'' general news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 
 c.1998 The New York Times Co.  

',
			paragraphs: '
   It is difficult to know for sure, but there may be more kinds of
creatures living on Earth now than ever before in the planet's
4.6-billion-year history. Or at least there were that many before
human beings appeared very late in the game and began changing the
rules.

   At first, life consisted of microscopic, single-cell balls, rods
and filaments. For perhaps 3 billion years, these microbes were all
the life there was on this wet, stark and rocky world.

   Not until about 600 million years ago, after the Earth emerged
from its deepest ice age ever, did bigger species evolve. Then
life's variety exploded.

   The expansion of biological variety has been on an upward curve
since then. From sequoias and nematodes to fungi and elephants,
millions of species populate the world.

   The curve has not been a smooth one. At least five times in the
last 600 million years, planetwide environmental cataclysms, like
drastic climatic change and colliding asteroids, have wiped out
whole families of organisms. Such events have threatened to erase
life, but succeeded only in partly clearing the stage for new and
different families.

   Between extinction spasms, in the background hum of evolution,
single species winked out here and there to be replaced by new
ones.

   Because of this continuous turnover, scientists believe, more
than 95 percent of all species that have ever existed are extinct
today.

   Now one species, Homo sapiens, has become so powerful an
influence on the rest of the biosphere that many experts fear it is
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a sixth major extinction.

   If so, it is happening simply because people are acting
naturally _ harvesting wild species to burn, eat or sell;
expropriating and destroying wild habitat to make way for human
works like farms, cities and suburbs; moving plants and animals
around the globe in a mix-and-match game in which a relatively few,
superadaptable plant and animal species are crowding out a larger
number of less hardy ones.

   The pressure is likely to intensify as the Earth's human
population, now about 6 billion, approaches a doubling before
leveling off in perhaps a century.

   The impact of the numbers is magnified greatly by technology's
power to shape the landscape and exploit the oceans.

   This combination has been especially worrisome for the rain
forests, where most of the world's species are found and
large-scale clearing is under way.

   No one knows exactly how many species live on Earth. About 1.4
million have been described and named, but biologists believe there
are at least 10 times that many.

   And no one can put precise numbers on the rate of present-day
extinction, although several scientists have made rough stabs.

   One relatively conservative estimate says that for some species
found only in one locality, the rate may be 100 to 1,000 times the
normal ``background'' rate between mass extinctions of the past.

   Few scientists who study the situation doubt that humans are
driving other creatures toward extinction at a growing rate.

   To whatever extent they are doing so, people are reducing the
variety of life on Earth _ what conservation biologists now call
biological diversity, or just biodiversity.

   Biodiversity is not merely a matter of different kinds of
species. It applies to many layers of nature on different scales.

   On one level, it is expressed by the number of genetic
variations within a species, the raw material of evolution; destroy
the wrong genes, and the species might not be able to adapt and
survive in the long run.

   On a broader scale, biodiversity is expressed in the bewildering
variety of types of ecosystems, the tightly interwoven communities
of plants, animals and microbes that are nature's working units.

   Forests, wetlands and grasslands are examples of one level of
ecosystem variety, and each comprises numerous interconnected
subunits, right down to the microscopic. It is these interconnected
communities that constitute the fabric of life on Earth.

   To whatever degree human activity is narrowing the variety of
life, scientists say, it is doing so on all levels.

   Why does this matter? Conservationists and biologists offer a
number of answers. On the practical level, wild species provide the
raw material for medicine and food. Who knows what undiscovered
plant might provide a cure for our era's killer diseases?

   Acting together, wild species support the human economy by
providing an array of services like water purification, soil
formation, pollination, flood control and, in our age, outdoor
recreation.

   On a more fundamental level, they support human life: Without
humans, the biosphere would not miss a beat. But without insects
and microbes, humans would disappear quickly.

   Some experts say natural systems are intrinsic to psychological
well-being.

   Finally, many conservationists assert a moral imperative: It is
simply wrong to destroy large slices of creation.

   Moral arguments aside, are all species equally valuable?
Scientists believe that in many ecosystems, a few keystone species
hold everything together, and that if they are removed, the system
will collapse and all the other species in it will disappear.

   The problem is that in most instances, no one is sure which are
the crucial species.

   What's more, scientists have found, the greater the variety of
plant species in an ecosystem, the more productive it is over all.

   So, conservationists argue, it is necessary to save as many
species as possible. They have their work cut out for them, since
the catalogue of imperilment is long.

   In April, the World Conservation Union, in Gland, Switzerland,
added nearly 34,000 plant species _ one of every eight known plant
species in the world, and nearly one of three in the United States
_ to its growing ``red list'' of imperiled organisms.

   In possibly an even more important gauge of overall biological
vitality, an earlier assessment, by United States Federal
Government scientists, found that vast stretches of the natural
landscape, amounting to at least half the area of the contiguous 48
states, had declined to the point of endangerment.

   This report, the first ever done on the state of health of the
nation's individual ecosystems, found that 30 of them, some of
which dominated vast regions before the arrival of Europeans, have
been destroyed or degraded by 98 percent.

   Not even the trackless ocean is immune. Overfishing has pushed
some marine species _ the cod and the blue-fin tuna, for example _
to the brink of commercial extinction.

   Coral reefs in some parts of the world are under severe assault;
in parts of Asia, fishermen squirt sodium cyanide into the water to
stun fish, in doses strong enough to kill the corals that maintain
the reef ecosystem.

   The abundant evidence for the threat to biodiversity should not
be overinterpreted. The recent red-listing of plants includes many
simply because they are rare. While many may be vulnerable, humans
do not threaten them just yet.

   The red list of plants can be read another way, too: While one
in eight plants was judged imperiled, almost 90 percent were not.

   On the action front, there are bright spots. Over the last
century, a worldwide conservation movement has struggled to stem
the human assault on nature.

   The United States' Endangered Species Act is regarded as the
strongest protection law in the world.

   In the last six years, more than 160 countries, not including
the United States, have ratified a treaty obligating governments to
protect plant and animal species.

   But victories are scattered or overturned. Recently, a federal
court, for instance, invalidated the Yellowstone wolf restoration
project, and a legal battle is under way.

   Meanwhile, habitat continues to disappear at an
``unprecedented'' rate, according to the United Nations. The
magnitude of the sixth extinction, if that is what is occurring,
will become clear in time.

   The 21st century may reveal whether the clever brain bequeathed
to Homo sapiens by the evolution of biological diversity can be
used to save diversity as well as destroy it.

   -----

   &UR; (William K. Stevens covers environmental sciences for The New
York Times.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0084 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:33 ',
			header: '
A4575 &Cx1f; tab-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL     06-11 1549
',
			slug: ' BC-EXTRA-PLANET-IN-PERIL-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
LUSH LIFE: BUT AS SPECIES VANISH, WHAT WILL WE LOSE? 
',
			trailer: '
   It is difficult to know for sure, but there may be more kinds of
creatures living on Earth now than ever before in the planet's
4.6-billion-year history. Or at least there were that many before
human beings appeared very late in the game and began changing the
rules.

   At first, life consisted of microscopic, single-cell balls, rods
and filaments. For perhaps 3 billion years, these microbes were all
the life there was on this wet, stark and rocky world.

   Not until about 600 million years ago, after the Earth emerged
from its deepest ice age ever, did bigger species evolve. Then
life's variety exploded.

   The expansion of biological variety has been on an upward curve
since then. From sequoias and nematodes to fungi and elephants,
millions of species populate the world.

   The curve has not been a smooth one. At least five times in the
last 600 million years, planetwide environmental cataclysms, like
drastic climatic change and colliding asteroids, have wiped out
whole families of organisms. Such events have threatened to erase
life, but succeeded only in partly clearing the stage for new and
different families.

   Between extinction spasms, in the background hum of evolution,
single species winked out here and there to be replaced by new
ones.

   Because of this continuous turnover, scientists believe, more
than 95 percent of all species that have ever existed are extinct
today.

   Now one species, Homo sapiens, has become so powerful an
influence on the rest of the biosphere that many experts fear it is
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a sixth major extinction.

   If so, it is happening simply because people are acting
naturally _ harvesting wild species to burn, eat or sell;
expropriating and destroying wild habitat to make way for human
works like farms, cities and suburbs; moving plants and animals
around the globe in a mix-and-match game in which a relatively few,
superadaptable plant and animal species are crowding out a larger
number of less hardy ones.

   The pressure is likely to intensify as the Earth's human
population, now about 6 billion, approaches a doubling before
leveling off in perhaps a century.

   The impact of the numbers is magnified greatly by technology's
power to shape the landscape and exploit the oceans.

   This combination has been especially worrisome for the rain
forests, where most of the world's species are found and
large-scale clearing is under way.

   No one knows exactly how many species live on Earth. About 1.4
million have been described and named, but biologists believe there
are at least 10 times that many.

   And no one can put precise numbers on the rate of present-day
extinction, although several scientists have made rough stabs.

   One relatively conservative estimate says that for some species
found only in one locality, the rate may be 100 to 1,000 times the
normal ``background'' rate between mass extinctions of the past.

   Few scientists who study the situation doubt that humans are
driving other creatures toward extinction at a growing rate.

   To whatever extent they are doing so, people are reducing the
variety of life on Earth _ what conservation biologists now call
biological diversity, or just biodiversity.

   Biodiversity is not merely a matter of different kinds of
species. It applies to many layers of nature on different scales.

   On one level, it is expressed by the number of genetic
variations within a species, the raw material of evolution; destroy
the wrong genes, and the species might not be able to adapt and
survive in the long run.

   On a broader scale, biodiversity is expressed in the bewildering
variety of types of ecosystems, the tightly interwoven communities
of plants, animals and microbes that are nature's working units.

   Forests, wetlands and grasslands are examples of one level of
ecosystem variety, and each comprises numerous interconnected
subunits, right down to the microscopic. It is these interconnected
communities that constitute the fabric of life on Earth.

   To whatever degree human activity is narrowing the variety of
life, scientists say, it is doing so on all levels.

   Why does this matter? Conservationists and biologists offer a
number of answers. On the practical level, wild species provide the
raw material for medicine and food. Who knows what undiscovered
plant might provide a cure for our era's killer diseases?

   Acting together, wild species support the human economy by
providing an array of services like water purification, soil
formation, pollination, flood control and, in our age, outdoor
recreation.

   On a more fundamental level, they support human life: Without
humans, the biosphere would not miss a beat. But without insects
and microbes, humans would disappear quickly.

   Some experts say natural systems are intrinsic to psychological
well-being.

   Finally, many conservationists assert a moral imperative: It is
simply wrong to destroy large slices of creation.

   Moral arguments aside, are all species equally valuable?
Scientists believe that in many ecosystems, a few keystone species
hold everything together, and that if they are removed, the system
will collapse and all the other species in it will disappear.

   The problem is that in most instances, no one is sure which are
the crucial species.

   What's more, scientists have found, the greater the variety of
plant species in an ecosystem, the more productive it is over all.

   So, conservationists argue, it is necessary to save as many
species as possible. They have their work cut out for them, since
the catalogue of imperilment is long.

   In April, the World Conservation Union, in Gland, Switzerland,
added nearly 34,000 plant species _ one of every eight known plant
species in the world, and nearly one of three in the United States
_ to its growing ``red list'' of imperiled organisms.

   In possibly an even more important gauge of overall biological
vitality, an earlier assessment, by United States Federal
Government scientists, found that vast stretches of the natural
landscape, amounting to at least half the area of the contiguous 48
states, had declined to the point of endangerment.

   This report, the first ever done on the state of health of the
nation's individual ecosystems, found that 30 of them, some of
which dominated vast regions before the arrival of Europeans, have
been destroyed or degraded by 98 percent.

   Not even the trackless ocean is immune. Overfishing has pushed
some marine species _ the cod and the blue-fin tuna, for example _
to the brink of commercial extinction.

   Coral reefs in some parts of the world are under severe assault;
in parts of Asia, fishermen squirt sodium cyanide into the water to
stun fish, in doses strong enough to kill the corals that maintain
the reef ecosystem.

   The abundant evidence for the threat to biodiversity should not
be overinterpreted. The recent red-listing of plants includes many
simply because they are rare. While many may be vulnerable, humans
do not threaten them just yet.

   The red list of plants can be read another way, too: While one
in eight plants was judged imperiled, almost 90 percent were not.

   On the action front, there are bright spots. Over the last
century, a worldwide conservation movement has struggled to stem
the human assault on nature.

   The United States' Endangered Species Act is regarded as the
strongest protection law in the world.

   In the last six years, more than 160 countries, not including
the United States, have ratified a treaty obligating governments to
protect plant and animal species.

   But victories are scattered or overturned. Recently, a federal
court, for instance, invalidated the Yellowstone wolf restoration
project, and a legal battle is under way.

   Meanwhile, habitat continues to disappear at an
``unprecedented'' rate, according to the United Nations. The
magnitude of the sixth extinction, if that is what is occurring,
will become clear in time.

   The 21st century may reveal whether the clever brain bequeathed
to Homo sapiens by the evolution of biological diversity can be
used to save diversity as well as destroy it.

   -----

   &UR; (William K. Stevens covers environmental sciences for The New
York Times.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (This is one of five special ``one-shot'' features culled from
NATURAL ORDER, a special news section from The New York Times
devoted to biodiversity and environmental issues. For purchase
information _ THE RATE IS NOT PROHIBITIVE _ contact one of these
New York Times Syndicate sales representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``l'' lifestyle news and ``a'' general news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 
 c.1998 The New York Times Co.  

',
			paragraphs: '
   It is difficult to know for sure, but there may be more kinds of
creatures living on Earth now than ever before in the planet's
4.6-billion-year history. Or at least there were that many before
human beings appeared very late in the game and began changing the
rules.

   At first, life consisted of microscopic, single-cell balls, rods
and filaments. For perhaps 3 billion years, these microbes were all
the life there was on this wet, stark and rocky world.

   Not until about 600 million years ago, after the Earth emerged
from its deepest ice age ever, did bigger species evolve. Then
life's variety exploded.

   The expansion of biological variety has been on an upward curve
since then. From sequoias and nematodes to fungi and elephants,
millions of species populate the world.

   The curve has not been a smooth one. At least five times in the
last 600 million years, planetwide environmental cataclysms, like
drastic climatic change and colliding asteroids, have wiped out
whole families of organisms. Such events have threatened to erase
life, but succeeded only in partly clearing the stage for new and
different families.

   Between extinction spasms, in the background hum of evolution,
single species winked out here and there to be replaced by new
ones.

   Because of this continuous turnover, scientists believe, more
than 95 percent of all species that have ever existed are extinct
today.

   Now one species, Homo sapiens, has become so powerful an
influence on the rest of the biosphere that many experts fear it is
perpetrating, willy-nilly, a sixth major extinction.

   If so, it is happening simply because people are acting
naturally _ harvesting wild species to burn, eat or sell;
expropriating and destroying wild habitat to make way for human
works like farms, cities and suburbs; moving plants and animals
around the globe in a mix-and-match game in which a relatively few,
superadaptable plant and animal species are crowding out a larger
number of less hardy ones.

   The pressure is likely to intensify as the Earth's human
population, now about 6 billion, approaches a doubling before
leveling off in perhaps a century.

   The impact of the numbers is magnified greatly by technology's
power to shape the landscape and exploit the oceans.

   This combination has been especially worrisome for the rain
forests, where most of the world's species are found and
large-scale clearing is under way.

   No one knows exactly how many species live on Earth. About 1.4
million have been described and named, but biologists believe there
are at least 10 times that many.

   And no one can put precise numbers on the rate of present-day
extinction, although several scientists have made rough stabs.

   One relatively conservative estimate says that for some species
found only in one locality, the rate may be 100 to 1,000 times the
normal ``background'' rate between mass extinctions of the past.

   Few scientists who study the situation doubt that humans are
driving other creatures toward extinction at a growing rate.

   To whatever extent they are doing so, people are reducing the
variety of life on Earth _ what conservation biologists now call
biological diversity, or just biodiversity.

   Biodiversity is not merely a matter of different kinds of
species. It applies to many layers of nature on different scales.

   On one level, it is expressed by the number of genetic
variations within a species, the raw material of evolution; destroy
the wrong genes, and the species might not be able to adapt and
survive in the long run.

   On a broader scale, biodiversity is expressed in the bewildering
variety of types of ecosystems, the tightly interwoven communities
of plants, animals and microbes that are nature's working units.

   Forests, wetlands and grasslands are examples of one level of
ecosystem variety, and each comprises numerous interconnected
subunits, right down to the microscopic. It is these interconnected
communities that constitute the fabric of life on Earth.

   To whatever degree human activity is narrowing the variety of
life, scientists say, it is doing so on all levels.

   Why does this matter? Conservationists and biologists offer a
number of answers. On the practical level, wild species provide the
raw material for medicine and food. Who knows what undiscovered
plant might provide a cure for our era's killer diseases?

   Acting together, wild species support the human economy by
providing an array of services like water purification, soil
formation, pollination, flood control and, in our age, outdoor
recreation.

   On a more fundamental level, they support human life: Without
humans, the biosphere would not miss a beat. But without insects
and microbes, humans would disappear quickly.

   Some experts say natural systems are intrinsic to psychological
well-being.

   Finally, many conservationists assert a moral imperative: It is
simply wrong to destroy large slices of creation.

   Moral arguments aside, are all species equally valuable?
Scientists believe that in many ecosystems, a few keystone species
hold everything together, and that if they are removed, the system
will collapse and all the other species in it will disappear.

   The problem is that in most instances, no one is sure which are
the crucial species.

   What's more, scientists have found, the greater the variety of
plant species in an ecosystem, the more productive it is over all.

   So, conservationists argue, it is necessary to save as many
species as possible. They have their work cut out for them, since
the catalogue of imperilment is long.

   In April, the World Conservation Union, in Gland, Switzerland,
added nearly 34,000 plant species _ one of every eight known plant
species in the world, and nearly one of three in the United States
_ to its growing ``red list'' of imperiled organisms.

   In possibly an even more important gauge of overall biological
vitality, an earlier assessment, by United States Federal
Government scientists, found that vast stretches of the natural
landscape, amounting to at least half the area of the contiguous 48
states, had declined to the point of endangerment.

   This report, the first ever done on the state of health of the
nation's individual ecosystems, found that 30 of them, some of
which dominated vast regions before the arrival of Europeans, have
been destroyed or degraded by 98 percent.

   Not even the trackless ocean is immune. Overfishing has pushed
some marine species _ the cod and the blue-fin tuna, for example _
to the brink of commercial extinction.

   Coral reefs in some parts of the world are under severe assault;
in parts of Asia, fishermen squirt sodium cyanide into the water to
stun fish, in doses strong enough to kill the corals that maintain
the reef ecosystem.

   The abundant evidence for the threat to biodiversity should not
be overinterpreted. The recent red-listing of plants includes many
simply because they are rare. While many may be vulnerable, humans
do not threaten them just yet.

   The red list of plants can be read another way, too: While one
in eight plants was judged imperiled, almost 90 percent were not.

   On the action front, there are bright spots. Over the last
century, a worldwide conservation movement has struggled to stem
the human assault on nature.

   The United States' Endangered Species Act is regarded as the
strongest protection law in the world.

   In the last six years, more than 160 countries, not including
the United States, have ratified a treaty obligating governments to
protect plant and animal species.

   But victories are scattered or overturned. Recently, a federal
court, for instance, invalidated the Yellowstone wolf restoration
project, and a legal battle is under way.

   Meanwhile, habitat continues to disappear at an
``unprecedented'' rate, according to the United Nations. The
magnitude of the sixth extinction, if that is what is occurring,
will become clear in time.

   The 21st century may reveal whether the clever brain bequeathed
to Homo sapiens by the evolution of biological diversity can be
used to save diversity as well as destroy it.

   -----

   &UR; (William K. Stevens covers environmental sciences for The New
York Times.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0085 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:33 ',
			header: '
A4576 &Cx1f; tab-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-END     06-11 1629
',
			slug: ' BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ It has been more than 20 years since advocates of
saving the snail darter, a minnow-sized fish believed to be on the
brink of oblivion, blocked the mighty Tennessee Valley Authority
from building the $137 million Tellico Dam.

   That case went to the Supreme Court, which sided with the fish,
and only when Congress intervened did the dam go forward.

   These days, the Weyerhauser Corp. is negotiating a voluntary
plan to protect dozens of species on hundreds of thousands of acres
of rich forest habitat in Oregon over several decades, during which
development of the land will be allowed to continue.

   These cases are strikingly different manifestations of the
Endangered Species Act, a law evolving so rapidly that it almost
resembles a new species itself.

   In the old days, the law was mostly used to block development
and preserve the habitat of a species close to extinction.

   Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious and
subtler, as the government and landowners design management plans
to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of private
land, but at the same time not block development.

   This is a fundamental change in how the law should work. It also
reflects the realization that the Endangered Species Act's true aim
is to protect healthy and biologically diverse habitats, and not
just one imperiled species after another.

   That cannot be done without the involvement of private
landowners. So Congress and the Clinton administration are trying
to give developers a bigger role in protecting the nation's
biological diversity.

   Five years ago, when the Endangered Species Act was under attack
by business groups, the Clinton administration began to
aggressively encourage the use of ``habitat conservation plans,''
or HCPs, on private lands, which are estimated to provide habitat
to 80 percent of all protected species.

   HCPs are binding, voluntary agreements in which a landowner
adopts conservation measures, sometimes going beyond what the law
strictly requires, in exchange for permission to develop some
property even if endangered wildlife and habitat are hurt in the
process.

   A landowner might agree to leave some forest untouched to
protect wetlands from sediment and stream banks from erosion and to
preserve natural corridors for animals. Otherwise, homes can be
built, sewers trenched and driveways paved.

   Habitat conservation plans were authorized by Congress in 1982.
But before 1994, there were only about 20 such active arrangements.

   In contrast, by the end of last year there were more than 200;
hundreds of more are coming. And their size is increasing from
fewer than 1,000 acres at the outset to tens or even hundreds of
thousands of acres in recent cases.

   The new approach, advocates said, would reassure property owners
and provide incentives to protect the diversity of life on their
land.

   The Clinton administration credits the new arrangements for
helping to ensure the recovery of hundreds of species. But it is an
approach that creates suspicion and even hostility among some
environmentalists and conservation biologists.

   ``Under many HCPs, development is permitted and habitat is
destroyed despite great uncertainty about whether the landowners
have provided enough mitigation to sustain species in the long
run,'' said the environmental group Defenders of Wildlife in a
report written by Laura Hood, a biologist, and published in
February. Hood examined 24 such plans.

   The critics' fire is particularly directed at a part of the plan
that has proved crucial to winning acceptance by property owners:
the guarantee of ``no surprises'' to landowners.

   The no-surprises clause tells the landowner whose plan includes
permission to harm some of the species or habitat during
development _ a so-called incidental take permit _ that the
government will place no additional restrictions on how the land is
used during the plan's life, usually several decades.

   The promise holds even if unforeseen circumstances arise, which
may demand further steps to preserve species.

   If the landowner agrees and the federal government picks up the
costs, additional conservation measures can be imposed.

   ``Landowners with private or commercial land have a legitimate
concern,'' said Bruce Babbitt, the Secretary of Interior. ``They
want some assurance that once they agree to be a party to an HCP
and to mitigate the effects of their activities on listed species,
we won't come back later for a second bite from the apple.''

   ``A deal is a deal,'' Babbitt added.

   But the problem, some skeptical scientists say, is that nature
is full of surprises.

   ``There is great uncertainty in natural systems, but HCPs and
no-surprises agreements act as though that is not the case,'' said
Dr. Gary K. Meffe, a professor of biology at the University of
Florida and the editor of the journal Conservation Biology.

   The no-surprises policy is at the heart of a bill offered by the
Republican Senators John H. Chafee of Rhode Island and Dirk A.
Kempthorne of Idaho.

   The administration supports the bill, as do many Senate
Democrats. But so far, sponsors have been unable to bring it to the
Senate floor, partly over disputes about how to pay the
government's costs in the future, when surprises arise and
no-surprises clauses trigger federal payments to landowners.

   Senator Kempthorne's proposal, supported by Senator Pete V.
Domenici of Arizona, the budget committee chairman, to pay these
costs by selling big tracts of publicly owned land, caused an
immediate uproar among conservation advocates.

   Most major environmental groups oppose the Chafee-Kempthorne
bill and instead favor a proposal written by Representative George
Miller, a California Democrat, for consideration by the House.

   Miller says his bill would better ensure that endangered species
can actually begin to recover by setting aside critical habitat for
them and by restricting the use of the no-surprises guarantees.

   But Miller's bill is very unlikely to win approval this year,
and the prospects for rewriting the law before Congress adjourns
for the November elections appear dim.

   Meanwhile, conservation groups are fighting some proposed HCPs
by enlisting scientists to challenge the no-surprises provisions.

   The Audubon Society in Portland, Ore., for example, assembled
scientists to review Weyerhauser's proposed HCP for tracts of its
Oregon property.

   Weyerhauser and federal agencies are negotiating a complex plan
for species conservation and ecosystem management on approximately
400,000 acres of land in the Willamette Valley, foothills of the
central Cascade mountains and the Oregon coast ranges.

   The proposal would be implemented for 40 years with up to four
additional 10-year extensions.

   The plan would cover not only northern spotted owls (there are
about 160 owl sites on the land) but many other species, including
marbled murrelets, Umpqua River cutthroat trout, American peregrine
falcons, Columbian white-tailed deer, bald eagles, Aleutian Canada
geese and Oregon chubs.

   But in exchange for incidental take permits, which allows
Weyerhauser to damage the habitat of some of these species during
logging operations, the company agrees to accept detailed
prescriptions on how to manage the logging.

   Less than 40 percent of the land at a time will be reduced to
seedlings, and less than 60 percent at a time to seedlings and
saplings combined.

   The company will keep buffers around streams and leave behind
snags, large trees and big logs, all imperative to wildlife.

   Richard C. Wininger, a timber manager at Weyerhauser, said that
the plan includes flexibility to change practices along the way.

   For example, if the water in streams is not within prescribed
temperature ranges, the company must change the amount of forest
left to shade the streams. But that is not enough to satisfy some
critics.

   ``The panel has several concerns with freezing a management
program in place for the 40- to 80-year term of the HCP,'' the
Audubon scientists' report said. ``The next 40 years of scientific
research will certainly produce new data and insights. One need
only consider the change in science's understanding of spotted owls
and other species affected by the proposed HCP in the last 40
years.''

   -----

   &UR; (John H. Cushman Jr. is The New York Times' environmental
correspondent in Washington.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (This is one of five special ``one-shot'' features culled from
NATURAL ORDER, a special news section from The New York Times
devoted to biodiversity and environmental issues. For purchase
information _ THE RATE IS NOT PROHIBITIVE _ contact one of these
New York Times Syndicate sales representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)
 &HT;    
 &HT;    -----------------------------------------------
 &HT;    ART AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial
view -- of land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the
Weyerhauser timber company.
 &HT;    -----------------------------------------------
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``l'' lifestyle news and ``a'' general news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.
 c.1998 The New York Times Co.  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ It has been more than 20 years since advocates of
saving the snail darter, a minnow-sized fish believed to be on the
brink of oblivion, blocked the mighty Tennessee Valley Authority
from building the $137 million Tellico Dam.

   That case went to the Supreme Court, which sided with the fish,
and only when Congress intervened did the dam go forward.

   These days, the Weyerhauser Corp. is negotiating a voluntary
plan to protect dozens of species on hundreds of thousands of acres
of rich forest habitat in Oregon over several decades, during which
development of the land will be allowed to continue.

   These cases are strikingly different manifestations of the
Endangered Species Act, a law evolving so rapidly that it almost
resembles a new species itself.

   In the old days, the law was mostly used to block development
and preserve the habitat of a species close to extinction.

   Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious and
subtler, as the government and landowners design management plans
to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of private
land, but at the same time not block development.

   This is a fundamental change in how the law should work. It also
reflects the realization that the Endangered Species Act's true aim
is to protect healthy and biologically diverse habitats, and not
just one imperiled species after another.

   That cannot be done without the involvement of private
landowners. So Congress and the Clinton administration are trying
to give developers a bigger role in protecting the nation's
biological diversity.

   Five years ago, when the Endangered Species Act was under attack
by business groups, the Clinton administration began to
aggressively encourage the use of ``habitat conservation plans,''
or HCPs, on private lands, which are estimated to provide habitat
to 80 percent of all protected species.

   HCPs are binding, voluntary agreements in which a landowner
adopts conservation measures, sometimes going beyond what the law
strictly requires, in exchange for permission to develop some
property even if endangered wildlife and habitat are hurt in the
process.

   A landowner might agree to leave some forest untouched to
protect wetlands from sediment and stream banks from erosion and to
preserve natural corridors for animals. Otherwise, homes can be
built, sewers trenched and driveways paved.

   Habitat conservation plans were authorized by Congress in 1982.
But before 1994, there were only about 20 such active arrangements.

   In contrast, by the end of last year there were more than 200;
hundreds of more are coming. And their size is increasing from
fewer than 1,000 acres at the outset to tens or even hundreds of
thousands of acres in recent cases.

   The new approach, advocates said, would reassure property owners
and provide incentives to protect the diversity of life on their
land.

   The Clinton administration credits the new arrangements for
helping to ensure the recovery of hundreds of species. But it is an
approach that creates suspicion and even hostility among some
environmentalists and conservation biologists.

   ``Under many HCPs, development is permitted and habitat is
destroyed despite great uncertainty about whether the landowners
have provided enough mitigation to sustain species in the long
run,'' said the environmental group Defenders of Wildlife in a
report written by Laura Hood, a biologist, and published in
February. Hood examined 24 such plans.

   The critics' fire is particularly directed at a part of the plan
that has proved crucial to winning acceptance by property owners:
the guarantee of ``no surprises'' to landowners.

   The no-surprises clause tells the landowner whose plan includes
permission to harm some of the species or habitat during
development _ a so-called incidental take permit _ that the
government will place no additional restrictions on how the land is
used during the plan's life, usually several decades.

   The promise holds even if unforeseen circumstances arise, which
may demand further steps to preserve species.

   If the landowner agrees and the federal government picks up the
costs, additional conservation measures can be imposed.

   ``Landowners with private or commercial land have a legitimate
concern,'' said Bruce Babbitt, the Secretary of Interior. ``They
want some assurance that once they agree to be a party to an HCP
and to mitigate the effects of their activities on listed species,
we won't come back later for a second bite from the apple.''

   ``A deal is a deal,'' Babbitt added.

   But the problem, some skeptical scientists say, is that nature
is full of surprises.

   ``There is great uncertainty in natural systems, but HCPs and
no-surprises agreements act as though that is not the case,'' said
Dr. Gary K. Meffe, a professor of biology at the University of
Florida and the editor of the journal Conservation Biology.

   The no-surprises policy is at the heart of a bill offered by the
Republican Senators John H. Chafee of Rhode Island and Dirk A.
Kempthorne of Idaho.

   The administration supports the bill, as do many Senate
Democrats. But so far, sponsors have been unable to bring it to the
Senate floor, partly over disputes about how to pay the
government's costs in the future, when surprises arise and
no-surprises clauses trigger federal payments to landowners.

   Senator Kempthorne's proposal, supported by Senator Pete V.
Domenici of Arizona, the budget committee chairman, to pay these
costs by selling big tracts of publicly owned land, caused an
immediate uproar among conservation advocates.

   Most major environmental groups oppose the Chafee-Kempthorne
bill and instead favor a proposal written by Representative George
Miller, a California Democrat, for consideration by the House.

   Miller says his bill would better ensure that endangered species
can actually begin to recover by setting aside critical habitat for
them and by restricting the use of the no-surprises guarantees.

   But Miller's bill is very unlikely to win approval this year,
and the prospects for rewriting the law before Congress adjourns
for the November elections appear dim.

   Meanwhile, conservation groups are fighting some proposed HCPs
by enlisting scientists to challenge the no-surprises provisions.

   The Audubon Society in Portland, Ore., for example, assembled
scientists to review Weyerhauser's proposed HCP for tracts of its
Oregon property.

   Weyerhauser and federal agencies are negotiating a complex plan
for species conservation and ecosystem management on approximately
400,000 acres of land in the Willamette Valley, foothills of the
central Cascade mountains and the Oregon coast ranges.

   The proposal would be implemented for 40 years with up to four
additional 10-year extensions.

   The plan would cover not only northern spotted owls (there are
about 160 owl sites on the land) but many other species, including
marbled murrelets, Umpqua River cutthroat trout, American peregrine
falcons, Columbian white-tailed deer, bald eagles, Aleutian Canada
geese and Oregon chubs.

   But in exchange for incidental take permits, which allows
Weyerhauser to damage the habitat of some of these species during
logging operations, the company agrees to accept detailed
prescriptions on how to manage the logging.

   Less than 40 percent of the land at a time will be reduced to
seedlings, and less than 60 percent at a time to seedlings and
saplings combined.

   The company will keep buffers around streams and leave behind
snags, large trees and big logs, all imperative to wildlife.

   Richard C. Wininger, a timber manager at Weyerhauser, said that
the plan includes flexibility to change practices along the way.

   For example, if the water in streams is not within prescribed
temperature ranges, the company must change the amount of forest
left to shade the streams. But that is not enough to satisfy some
critics.

   ``The panel has several concerns with freezing a management
program in place for the 40- to 80-year term of the HCP,'' the
Audubon scientists' report said. ``The next 40 years of scientific
research will certainly produce new data and insights. One need
only consider the change in science's understanding of spotted owls
and other species affected by the proposed HCP in the last 40
years.''

   -----

   &UR; (John H. Cushman Jr. is The New York Times' environmental
correspondent in Washington.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0086 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:33 ',
			header: '
A4577 &Cx1f; tab-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-END     06-11 1629
',
			slug: ' BC-EXTRA-NEW-FACE-ON-ENDANGERED-SPECIES-ACT-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT GETS A MAKEOVER 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ It has been more than 20 years since advocates of
saving the snail darter, a minnow-sized fish believed to be on the
brink of oblivion, blocked the mighty Tennessee Valley Authority
from building the $137 million Tellico Dam.

   That case went to the Supreme Court, which sided with the fish,
and only when Congress intervened did the dam go forward.

   These days, the Weyerhauser Corp. is negotiating a voluntary
plan to protect dozens of species on hundreds of thousands of acres
of rich forest habitat in Oregon over several decades, during which
development of the land will be allowed to continue.

   These cases are strikingly different manifestations of the
Endangered Species Act, a law evolving so rapidly that it almost
resembles a new species itself.

   In the old days, the law was mostly used to block development
and preserve the habitat of a species close to extinction.

   Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious and
subtler, as the government and landowners design management plans
to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of private
land, but at the same time not block development.

   This is a fundamental change in how the law should work. It also
reflects the realization that the Endangered Species Act's true aim
is to protect healthy and biologically diverse habitats, and not
just one imperiled species after another.

   That cannot be done without the involvement of private
landowners. So Congress and the Clinton administration are trying
to give developers a bigger role in protecting the nation's
biological diversity.

   Five years ago, when the Endangered Species Act was under attack
by business groups, the Clinton administration began to
aggressively encourage the use of ``habitat conservation plans,''
or HCPs, on private lands, which are estimated to provide habitat
to 80 percent of all protected species.

   HCPs are binding, voluntary agreements in which a landowner
adopts conservation measures, sometimes going beyond what the law
strictly requires, in exchange for permission to develop some
property even if endangered wildlife and habitat are hurt in the
process.

   A landowner might agree to leave some forest untouched to
protect wetlands from sediment and stream banks from erosion and to
preserve natural corridors for animals. Otherwise, homes can be
built, sewers trenched and driveways paved.

   Habitat conservation plans were authorized by Congress in 1982.
But before 1994, there were only about 20 such active arrangements.

   In contrast, by the end of last year there were more than 200;
hundreds of more are coming. And their size is increasing from
fewer than 1,000 acres at the outset to tens or even hundreds of
thousands of acres in recent cases.

   The new approach, advocates said, would reassure property owners
and provide incentives to protect the diversity of life on their
land.

   The Clinton administration credits the new arrangements for
helping to ensure the recovery of hundreds of species. But it is an
approach that creates suspicion and even hostility among some
environmentalists and conservation biologists.

   ``Under many HCPs, development is permitted and habitat is
destroyed despite great uncertainty about whether the landowners
have provided enough mitigation to sustain species in the long
run,'' said the environmental group Defenders of Wildlife in a
report written by Laura Hood, a biologist, and published in
February. Hood examined 24 such plans.

   The critics' fire is particularly directed at a part of the plan
that has proved crucial to winning acceptance by property owners:
the guarantee of ``no surprises'' to landowners.

   The no-surprises clause tells the landowner whose plan includes
permission to harm some of the species or habitat during
development _ a so-called incidental take permit _ that the
government will place no additional restrictions on how the land is
used during the plan's life, usually several decades.

   The promise holds even if unforeseen circumstances arise, which
may demand further steps to preserve species.

   If the landowner agrees and the federal government picks up the
costs, additional conservation measures can be imposed.

   ``Landowners with private or commercial land have a legitimate
concern,'' said Bruce Babbitt, the Secretary of Interior. ``They
want some assurance that once they agree to be a party to an HCP
and to mitigate the effects of their activities on listed species,
we won't come back later for a second bite from the apple.''

   ``A deal is a deal,'' Babbitt added.

   But the problem, some skeptical scientists say, is that nature
is full of surprises.

   ``There is great uncertainty in natural systems, but HCPs and
no-surprises agreements act as though that is not the case,'' said
Dr. Gary K. Meffe, a professor of biology at the University of
Florida and the editor of the journal Conservation Biology.

   The no-surprises policy is at the heart of a bill offered by the
Republican Senators John H. Chafee of Rhode Island and Dirk A.
Kempthorne of Idaho.

   The administration supports the bill, as do many Senate
Democrats. But so far, sponsors have been unable to bring it to the
Senate floor, partly over disputes about how to pay the
government's costs in the future, when surprises arise and
no-surprises clauses trigger federal payments to landowners.

   Senator Kempthorne's proposal, supported by Senator Pete V.
Domenici of Arizona, the budget committee chairman, to pay these
costs by selling big tracts of publicly owned land, caused an
immediate uproar among conservation advocates.

   Most major environmental groups oppose the Chafee-Kempthorne
bill and instead favor a proposal written by Representative George
Miller, a California Democrat, for consideration by the House.

   Miller says his bill would better ensure that endangered species
can actually begin to recover by setting aside critical habitat for
them and by restricting the use of the no-surprises guarantees.

   But Miller's bill is very unlikely to win approval this year,
and the prospects for rewriting the law before Congress adjourns
for the November elections appear dim.

   Meanwhile, conservation groups are fighting some proposed HCPs
by enlisting scientists to challenge the no-surprises provisions.

   The Audubon Society in Portland, Ore., for example, assembled
scientists to review Weyerhauser's proposed HCP for tracts of its
Oregon property.

   Weyerhauser and federal agencies are negotiating a complex plan
for species conservation and ecosystem management on approximately
400,000 acres of land in the Willamette Valley, foothills of the
central Cascade mountains and the Oregon coast ranges.

   The proposal would be implemented for 40 years with up to four
additional 10-year extensions.

   The plan would cover not only northern spotted owls (there are
about 160 owl sites on the land) but many other species, including
marbled murrelets, Umpqua River cutthroat trout, American peregrine
falcons, Columbian white-tailed deer, bald eagles, Aleutian Canada
geese and Oregon chubs.

   But in exchange for incidental take permits, which allows
Weyerhauser to damage the habitat of some of these species during
logging operations, the company agrees to accept detailed
prescriptions on how to manage the logging.

   Less than 40 percent of the land at a time will be reduced to
seedlings, and less than 60 percent at a time to seedlings and
saplings combined.

   The company will keep buffers around streams and leave behind
snags, large trees and big logs, all imperative to wildlife.

   Richard C. Wininger, a timber manager at Weyerhauser, said that
the plan includes flexibility to change practices along the way.

   For example, if the water in streams is not within prescribed
temperature ranges, the company must change the amount of forest
left to shade the streams. But that is not enough to satisfy some
critics.

   ``The panel has several concerns with freezing a management
program in place for the 40- to 80-year term of the HCP,'' the
Audubon scientists' report said. ``The next 40 years of scientific
research will certainly produce new data and insights. One need
only consider the change in science's understanding of spotted owls
and other species affected by the proposed HCP in the last 40
years.''

   -----

   &UR; (John H. Cushman Jr. is The New York Times' environmental
correspondent in Washington.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (This is one of five special ``one-shot'' features culled from
NATURAL ORDER, a special news section from The New York Times
devoted to biodiversity and environmental issues. For purchase
information _ THE RATE IS NOT PROHIBITIVE _ contact one of these
New York Times Syndicate sales representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)
 &HT;    
 &HT;    -----------------------------------------------
 &HT;    ART AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image -- aerial
view -- of land in Oregon that has been clear-cut by the
Weyerhauser timber company.
 &HT;    -----------------------------------------------
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``l'' lifestyle news and ``a'' general news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.
 c.1998 The New York Times Co.  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ It has been more than 20 years since advocates of
saving the snail darter, a minnow-sized fish believed to be on the
brink of oblivion, blocked the mighty Tennessee Valley Authority
from building the $137 million Tellico Dam.

   That case went to the Supreme Court, which sided with the fish,
and only when Congress intervened did the dam go forward.

   These days, the Weyerhauser Corp. is negotiating a voluntary
plan to protect dozens of species on hundreds of thousands of acres
of rich forest habitat in Oregon over several decades, during which
development of the land will be allowed to continue.

   These cases are strikingly different manifestations of the
Endangered Species Act, a law evolving so rapidly that it almost
resembles a new species itself.

   In the old days, the law was mostly used to block development
and preserve the habitat of a species close to extinction.

   Nowadays, the law's enforcement is both more ambitious and
subtler, as the government and landowners design management plans
to protect habitats of many species across large tracts of private
land, but at the same time not block development.

   This is a fundamental change in how the law should work. It also
reflects the realization that the Endangered Species Act's true aim
is to protect healthy and biologically diverse habitats, and not
just one imperiled species after another.

   That cannot be done without the involvement of private
landowners. So Congress and the Clinton administration are trying
to give developers a bigger role in protecting the nation's
biological diversity.

   Five years ago, when the Endangered Species Act was under attack
by business groups, the Clinton administration began to
aggressively encourage the use of ``habitat conservation plans,''
or HCPs, on private lands, which are estimated to provide habitat
to 80 percent of all protected species.

   HCPs are binding, voluntary agreements in which a landowner
adopts conservation measures, sometimes going beyond what the law
strictly requires, in exchange for permission to develop some
property even if endangered wildlife and habitat are hurt in the
process.

   A landowner might agree to leave some forest untouched to
protect wetlands from sediment and stream banks from erosion and to
preserve natural corridors for animals. Otherwise, homes can be
built, sewers trenched and driveways paved.

   Habitat conservation plans were authorized by Congress in 1982.
But before 1994, there were only about 20 such active arrangements.

   In contrast, by the end of last year there were more than 200;
hundreds of more are coming. And their size is increasing from
fewer than 1,000 acres at the outset to tens or even hundreds of
thousands of acres in recent cases.

   The new approach, advocates said, would reassure property owners
and provide incentives to protect the diversity of life on their
land.

   The Clinton administration credits the new arrangements for
helping to ensure the recovery of hundreds of species. But it is an
approach that creates suspicion and even hostility among some
environmentalists and conservation biologists.

   ``Under many HCPs, development is permitted and habitat is
destroyed despite great uncertainty about whether the landowners
have provided enough mitigation to sustain species in the long
run,'' said the environmental group Defenders of Wildlife in a
report written by Laura Hood, a biologist, and published in
February. Hood examined 24 such plans.

   The critics' fire is particularly directed at a part of the plan
that has proved crucial to winning acceptance by property owners:
the guarantee of ``no surprises'' to landowners.

   The no-surprises clause tells the landowner whose plan includes
permission to harm some of the species or habitat during
development _ a so-called incidental take permit _ that the
government will place no additional restrictions on how the land is
used during the plan's life, usually several decades.

   The promise holds even if unforeseen circumstances arise, which
may demand further steps to preserve species.

   If the landowner agrees and the federal government picks up the
costs, additional conservation measures can be imposed.

   ``Landowners with private or commercial land have a legitimate
concern,'' said Bruce Babbitt, the Secretary of Interior. ``They
want some assurance that once they agree to be a party to an HCP
and to mitigate the effects of their activities on listed species,
we won't come back later for a second bite from the apple.''

   ``A deal is a deal,'' Babbitt added.

   But the problem, some skeptical scientists say, is that nature
is full of surprises.

   ``There is great uncertainty in natural systems, but HCPs and
no-surprises agreements act as though that is not the case,'' said
Dr. Gary K. Meffe, a professor of biology at the University of
Florida and the editor of the journal Conservation Biology.

   The no-surprises policy is at the heart of a bill offered by the
Republican Senators John H. Chafee of Rhode Island and Dirk A.
Kempthorne of Idaho.

   The administration supports the bill, as do many Senate
Democrats. But so far, sponsors have been unable to bring it to the
Senate floor, partly over disputes about how to pay the
government's costs in the future, when surprises arise and
no-surprises clauses trigger federal payments to landowners.

   Senator Kempthorne's proposal, supported by Senator Pete V.
Domenici of Arizona, the budget committee chairman, to pay these
costs by selling big tracts of publicly owned land, caused an
immediate uproar among conservation advocates.

   Most major environmental groups oppose the Chafee-Kempthorne
bill and instead favor a proposal written by Representative George
Miller, a California Democrat, for consideration by the House.

   Miller says his bill would better ensure that endangered species
can actually begin to recover by setting aside critical habitat for
them and by restricting the use of the no-surprises guarantees.

   But Miller's bill is very unlikely to win approval this year,
and the prospects for rewriting the law before Congress adjourns
for the November elections appear dim.

   Meanwhile, conservation groups are fighting some proposed HCPs
by enlisting scientists to challenge the no-surprises provisions.

   The Audubon Society in Portland, Ore., for example, assembled
scientists to review Weyerhauser's proposed HCP for tracts of its
Oregon property.

   Weyerhauser and federal agencies are negotiating a complex plan
for species conservation and ecosystem management on approximately
400,000 acres of land in the Willamette Valley, foothills of the
central Cascade mountains and the Oregon coast ranges.

   The proposal would be implemented for 40 years with up to four
additional 10-year extensions.

   The plan would cover not only northern spotted owls (there are
about 160 owl sites on the land) but many other species, including
marbled murrelets, Umpqua River cutthroat trout, American peregrine
falcons, Columbian white-tailed deer, bald eagles, Aleutian Canada
geese and Oregon chubs.

   But in exchange for incidental take permits, which allows
Weyerhauser to damage the habitat of some of these species during
logging operations, the company agrees to accept detailed
prescriptions on how to manage the logging.

   Less than 40 percent of the land at a time will be reduced to
seedlings, and less than 60 percent at a time to seedlings and
saplings combined.

   The company will keep buffers around streams and leave behind
snags, large trees and big logs, all imperative to wildlife.

   Richard C. Wininger, a timber manager at Weyerhauser, said that
the plan includes flexibility to change practices along the way.

   For example, if the water in streams is not within prescribed
temperature ranges, the company must change the amount of forest
left to shade the streams. But that is not enough to satisfy some
critics.

   ``The panel has several concerns with freezing a management
program in place for the 40- to 80-year term of the HCP,'' the
Audubon scientists' report said. ``The next 40 years of scientific
research will certainly produce new data and insights. One need
only consider the change in science's understanding of spotted owls
and other species affected by the proposed HCP in the last 40
years.''

   -----

   &UR; (John H. Cushman Jr. is The New York Times' environmental
correspondent in Washington.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0087 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:33 ',
			header: '
A4578 &Cx1f; tab-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY     06-11 1273
',
			slug: ' BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT 
',
			trailer: '
   THOMPSONVILLE, Mich. _ I Finally understood why Adam was so
enticed by Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through
our orchard near the northern coast of Lake Michigan.

   More than 100 apple trees _ some gnarled and thick at the trunk
like an old ash, others mere saplings _ stood scattered on a sandy
ridge between the maple forest and a dun-colored meadow.

   It was September 1991, weeks before the fruit fully matured.
Still, the orchard's scent was sweet and inviting.

   A dry summer had produced unblemished apples that hung from the
limbs in a wondrous display of variety and color. Big, red round
apples almost as large as grapefruits were on one tree, and they
had a light, candy taste.

   There were large green apples, a kind that had probably been
stored during the winter in straw-lined pits to be eaten in spring.

   And there were smaller green apples with brown patches that
might have originated from the old Roxbury Russet varieties popular
in northwestern Michigan around the turn of the century.

   As a journalist who covered farming and wrote about modern
agriculture's shrinking genetic resources, I was struck by the
number of varieties, none of which could be found at the markets in
the towns of Benzonia or Frankfort nearby.

   Since the early '70s, plant breeders have worried that the
abundance of the world's food supply is balanced on a narrowing
supply of wild and domestic plant genes.

   For instance, a handful of varieties bred for peak production
make up the bulk of the world's rice harvest. Meanwhile,
irreplaceable genetic traits that enabled old varieties of rice to
grow in harsh conditions have disappeared.

   The same scenario is playing out for wheat, corn, barley,
tomatoes and most other major food plants. Homogenization in the
market is one result. Hunger can be another. The Irish potato
famine was caused by a plant disease that raced through crops
containing no genetic resistance.

   As the new owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in
Manistee County, Mich., my wife and I wanted to know more about the
place we had just bought and who had preceded us.

   Although historical records are incomplete, sometime during the
1880s, Hiram Hier moved to the township and built a plain two-story
home for his wife and two children on a rise above Nurnberger Road.

   Like other homesteaders, he planted different varieties of apple
trees _ in his case, three neat rows down the south-facing slope of
the widest ridge on his land.

   During the late 19th century, American farmers were encouraged
to spread seeds and see what came up. Hier almost surely followed
the protocol, as did his neighbors.

   Long growing seasons moderated by Lake Michigan, well-drained
soils and high ridges, which kept untimely frosts at bay, had
already distinguished Michigan's west side as one of the nation's
prime fruit-growing areas.

   By the early 20th century, the fruit belt of northwest and
western Michigan was producing more than 50 commercial varieties of
apples, authorities say. Among the old favorites, some of them
recognizable in my orchard, are Snow apples, which are pure white
to the bite; the Wolf River, a big, round baking apple; Maiden's
Blush, an early ripening yellow apple with a bewitching dark-pink
patch on the side that receives the most sunlight; and Golden
Russet, with skin the color of brown sugar.

   ``At that time, apple varieties were so diverse, it was just
like human beings,'' said John Kilcherman, a farmer in Northport,
Mich., who cultivates 240 heirloom varieties for his thriving
mail-order business. ``There were as many apples as there were
tastes.''

   Two years ago, I walked our land and tried to count the number
of varieties, concluding there were at least 14.

   It was not a simple task. The old trees that Hier had planted
were mostly dead, and a forest of maple and ash had grown up around
them. Hier's son, Lee, was the last to farm the place, and when he
died in the 1960s, deer began spreading the seeds. Young
fruit-bearing trees are now growing throughout the property.

   Whatever the number, I was certain there were more varieties
available than in almost any commercial supermarket.

   Even along the Lake Michigan coast, the center of a $100 million
apple-growing industry, the nation's fourth largest, the markets
offer paltry pickings. Red Delicious, Jonathan and McIntosh are
Michigan's big three. Northern Spy, an old variety, is still grown
widely for use in pies and to make cider.

   Shelf life, texture, uniform ripening and disease resistance are
the most sought-after traits. Distinctive taste is barely in the
first tier of breeding goals.

   Growers, moreover, are reluctant to experiment by introducing
unfamiliar varieties. Production costs are too high and profit
margins too slim, and tearing out a productive orchard to test an
unknown is too big a leap for most growers.

   Fortunately, apples have not descended to the level of the
modern tomato. Cornell University keeps a well-stocked germ-plasm
repository in Geneva, N.Y., which is collecting wild seeds from the
Caspian Sea region and from Kazakhstan.

   Wild apple trees are still so prevalent in this so-called center
of diversity that they constitute 40 percent of the native forest,
said James Luby, an apple breeder and a professor of horticulture
at the University of Minnesota.

   Moreover, there are 6,000 known commercial apple varieties in
the world, a deep reservoir of genetic material for the next
century.

   At this point, I'm more interested in apples developed in the
last century. In mid-May, the blossoms open and our trees look as
if they are covered in snow.

   In October, friends come to pick apples and haul them to
Swanson's mill three miles away to be pressed into the most
delicious tart cider.

   We have baked our apples into crisps and pies, eaten them
straight from the trees and stored some of the harder green ones
into the winter.

   Preserving a diversity of strains may be part of a global
solution. But for us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures
that are all the more precious because we can't find them anywhere
else.

   -----

   &UR; (Keith Schneider, a former environmental reporter for The New
York Times, is the executive director of the Michigan Land Use
Institute.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (This is one of five special ``one-shot'' features culled from
NATURAL ORDER, a special news section from The New York Times
devoted to biodiversity and environmental issues. For purchase
information _ THE RATE IS NOT PROHIBITIVE _ contact one of these
New York Times Syndicate sales representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)
 &HT;    
 &HT;    -----------------------------------------------
 &HT;    ART AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a
couple harvesting heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in
Manistee County, Mich., which is discussed in this feature.
 &HT;    -----------------------------------------------
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``l'' lifestyle news and ``a'' general news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By KEITH SCHNEIDER 
 c.1998 The New York Times Co.  

',
			paragraphs: '
   THOMPSONVILLE, Mich. _ I Finally understood why Adam was so
enticed by Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through
our orchard near the northern coast of Lake Michigan.

   More than 100 apple trees _ some gnarled and thick at the trunk
like an old ash, others mere saplings _ stood scattered on a sandy
ridge between the maple forest and a dun-colored meadow.

   It was September 1991, weeks before the fruit fully matured.
Still, the orchard's scent was sweet and inviting.

   A dry summer had produced unblemished apples that hung from the
limbs in a wondrous display of variety and color. Big, red round
apples almost as large as grapefruits were on one tree, and they
had a light, candy taste.

   There were large green apples, a kind that had probably been
stored during the winter in straw-lined pits to be eaten in spring.

   And there were smaller green apples with brown patches that
might have originated from the old Roxbury Russet varieties popular
in northwestern Michigan around the turn of the century.

   As a journalist who covered farming and wrote about modern
agriculture's shrinking genetic resources, I was struck by the
number of varieties, none of which could be found at the markets in
the towns of Benzonia or Frankfort nearby.

   Since the early '70s, plant breeders have worried that the
abundance of the world's food supply is balanced on a narrowing
supply of wild and domestic plant genes.

   For instance, a handful of varieties bred for peak production
make up the bulk of the world's rice harvest. Meanwhile,
irreplaceable genetic traits that enabled old varieties of rice to
grow in harsh conditions have disappeared.

   The same scenario is playing out for wheat, corn, barley,
tomatoes and most other major food plants. Homogenization in the
market is one result. Hunger can be another. The Irish potato
famine was caused by a plant disease that raced through crops
containing no genetic resistance.

   As the new owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in
Manistee County, Mich., my wife and I wanted to know more about the
place we had just bought and who had preceded us.

   Although historical records are incomplete, sometime during the
1880s, Hiram Hier moved to the township and built a plain two-story
home for his wife and two children on a rise above Nurnberger Road.

   Like other homesteaders, he planted different varieties of apple
trees _ in his case, three neat rows down the south-facing slope of
the widest ridge on his land.

   During the late 19th century, American farmers were encouraged
to spread seeds and see what came up. Hier almost surely followed
the protocol, as did his neighbors.

   Long growing seasons moderated by Lake Michigan, well-drained
soils and high ridges, which kept untimely frosts at bay, had
already distinguished Michigan's west side as one of the nation's
prime fruit-growing areas.

   By the early 20th century, the fruit belt of northwest and
western Michigan was producing more than 50 commercial varieties of
apples, authorities say. Among the old favorites, some of them
recognizable in my orchard, are Snow apples, which are pure white
to the bite; the Wolf River, a big, round baking apple; Maiden's
Blush, an early ripening yellow apple with a bewitching dark-pink
patch on the side that receives the most sunlight; and Golden
Russet, with skin the color of brown sugar.

   ``At that time, apple varieties were so diverse, it was just
like human beings,'' said John Kilcherman, a farmer in Northport,
Mich., who cultivates 240 heirloom varieties for his thriving
mail-order business. ``There were as many apples as there were
tastes.''

   Two years ago, I walked our land and tried to count the number
of varieties, concluding there were at least 14.

   It was not a simple task. The old trees that Hier had planted
were mostly dead, and a forest of maple and ash had grown up around
them. Hier's son, Lee, was the last to farm the place, and when he
died in the 1960s, deer began spreading the seeds. Young
fruit-bearing trees are now growing throughout the property.

   Whatever the number, I was certain there were more varieties
available than in almost any commercial supermarket.

   Even along the Lake Michigan coast, the center of a $100 million
apple-growing industry, the nation's fourth largest, the markets
offer paltry pickings. Red Delicious, Jonathan and McIntosh are
Michigan's big three. Northern Spy, an old variety, is still grown
widely for use in pies and to make cider.

   Shelf life, texture, uniform ripening and disease resistance are
the most sought-after traits. Distinctive taste is barely in the
first tier of breeding goals.

   Growers, moreover, are reluctant to experiment by introducing
unfamiliar varieties. Production costs are too high and profit
margins too slim, and tearing out a productive orchard to test an
unknown is too big a leap for most growers.

   Fortunately, apples have not descended to the level of the
modern tomato. Cornell University keeps a well-stocked germ-plasm
repository in Geneva, N.Y., which is collecting wild seeds from the
Caspian Sea region and from Kazakhstan.

   Wild apple trees are still so prevalent in this so-called center
of diversity that they constitute 40 percent of the native forest,
said James Luby, an apple breeder and a professor of horticulture
at the University of Minnesota.

   Moreover, there are 6,000 known commercial apple varieties in
the world, a deep reservoir of genetic material for the next
century.

   At this point, I'm more interested in apples developed in the
last century. In mid-May, the blossoms open and our trees look as
if they are covered in snow.

   In October, friends come to pick apples and haul them to
Swanson's mill three miles away to be pressed into the most
delicious tart cider.

   We have baked our apples into crisps and pies, eaten them
straight from the trees and stored some of the harder green ones
into the winter.

   Preserving a diversity of strains may be part of a global
solution. But for us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures
that are all the more precious because we can't find them anywhere
else.

   -----

   &UR; (Keith Schneider, a former environmental reporter for The New
York Times, is the executive director of the Michigan Land Use
Institute.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0088 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:33 ',
			header: '
A4579 &Cx1f; tab-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY     06-11 1273
',
			slug: ' BC-EXTRA-A-RED-AND-JUICY-TALE-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
IN AN OLD ORCHARD, TASTES THE SUPERMARKET FORGOT 
',
			trailer: '
   THOMPSONVILLE, Mich. _ I Finally understood why Adam was so
enticed by Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through
our orchard near the northern coast of Lake Michigan.

   More than 100 apple trees _ some gnarled and thick at the trunk
like an old ash, others mere saplings _ stood scattered on a sandy
ridge between the maple forest and a dun-colored meadow.

   It was September 1991, weeks before the fruit fully matured.
Still, the orchard's scent was sweet and inviting.

   A dry summer had produced unblemished apples that hung from the
limbs in a wondrous display of variety and color. Big, red round
apples almost as large as grapefruits were on one tree, and they
had a light, candy taste.

   There were large green apples, a kind that had probably been
stored during the winter in straw-lined pits to be eaten in spring.

   And there were smaller green apples with brown patches that
might have originated from the old Roxbury Russet varieties popular
in northwestern Michigan around the turn of the century.

   As a journalist who covered farming and wrote about modern
agriculture's shrinking genetic resources, I was struck by the
number of varieties, none of which could be found at the markets in
the towns of Benzonia or Frankfort nearby.

   Since the early '70s, plant breeders have worried that the
abundance of the world's food supply is balanced on a narrowing
supply of wild and domestic plant genes.

   For instance, a handful of varieties bred for peak production
make up the bulk of the world's rice harvest. Meanwhile,
irreplaceable genetic traits that enabled old varieties of rice to
grow in harsh conditions have disappeared.

   The same scenario is playing out for wheat, corn, barley,
tomatoes and most other major food plants. Homogenization in the
market is one result. Hunger can be another. The Irish potato
famine was caused by a plant disease that raced through crops
containing no genetic resistance.

   As the new owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in
Manistee County, Mich., my wife and I wanted to know more about the
place we had just bought and who had preceded us.

   Although historical records are incomplete, sometime during the
1880s, Hiram Hier moved to the township and built a plain two-story
home for his wife and two children on a rise above Nurnberger Road.

   Like other homesteaders, he planted different varieties of apple
trees _ in his case, three neat rows down the south-facing slope of
the widest ridge on his land.

   During the late 19th century, American farmers were encouraged
to spread seeds and see what came up. Hier almost surely followed
the protocol, as did his neighbors.

   Long growing seasons moderated by Lake Michigan, well-drained
soils and high ridges, which kept untimely frosts at bay, had
already distinguished Michigan's west side as one of the nation's
prime fruit-growing areas.

   By the early 20th century, the fruit belt of northwest and
western Michigan was producing more than 50 commercial varieties of
apples, authorities say. Among the old favorites, some of them
recognizable in my orchard, are Snow apples, which are pure white
to the bite; the Wolf River, a big, round baking apple; Maiden's
Blush, an early ripening yellow apple with a bewitching dark-pink
patch on the side that receives the most sunlight; and Golden
Russet, with skin the color of brown sugar.

   ``At that time, apple varieties were so diverse, it was just
like human beings,'' said John Kilcherman, a farmer in Northport,
Mich., who cultivates 240 heirloom varieties for his thriving
mail-order business. ``There were as many apples as there were
tastes.''

   Two years ago, I walked our land and tried to count the number
of varieties, concluding there were at least 14.

   It was not a simple task. The old trees that Hier had planted
were mostly dead, and a forest of maple and ash had grown up around
them. Hier's son, Lee, was the last to farm the place, and when he
died in the 1960s, deer began spreading the seeds. Young
fruit-bearing trees are now growing throughout the property.

   Whatever the number, I was certain there were more varieties
available than in almost any commercial supermarket.

   Even along the Lake Michigan coast, the center of a $100 million
apple-growing industry, the nation's fourth largest, the markets
offer paltry pickings. Red Delicious, Jonathan and McIntosh are
Michigan's big three. Northern Spy, an old variety, is still grown
widely for use in pies and to make cider.

   Shelf life, texture, uniform ripening and disease resistance are
the most sought-after traits. Distinctive taste is barely in the
first tier of breeding goals.

   Growers, moreover, are reluctant to experiment by introducing
unfamiliar varieties. Production costs are too high and profit
margins too slim, and tearing out a productive orchard to test an
unknown is too big a leap for most growers.

   Fortunately, apples have not descended to the level of the
modern tomato. Cornell University keeps a well-stocked germ-plasm
repository in Geneva, N.Y., which is collecting wild seeds from the
Caspian Sea region and from Kazakhstan.

   Wild apple trees are still so prevalent in this so-called center
of diversity that they constitute 40 percent of the native forest,
said James Luby, an apple breeder and a professor of horticulture
at the University of Minnesota.

   Moreover, there are 6,000 known commercial apple varieties in
the world, a deep reservoir of genetic material for the next
century.

   At this point, I'm more interested in apples developed in the
last century. In mid-May, the blossoms open and our trees look as
if they are covered in snow.

   In October, friends come to pick apples and haul them to
Swanson's mill three miles away to be pressed into the most
delicious tart cider.

   We have baked our apples into crisps and pies, eaten them
straight from the trees and stored some of the harder green ones
into the winter.

   Preserving a diversity of strains may be part of a global
solution. But for us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures
that are all the more precious because we can't find them anywhere
else.

   -----

   &UR; (Keith Schneider, a former environmental reporter for The New
York Times, is the executive director of the Michigan Land Use
Institute.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (This is one of five special ``one-shot'' features culled from
NATURAL ORDER, a special news section from The New York Times
devoted to biodiversity and environmental issues. For purchase
information _ THE RATE IS NOT PROHIBITIVE _ contact one of these
New York Times Syndicate sales representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)
 &HT;    
 &HT;    -----------------------------------------------
 &HT;    ART AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE: One horizontal color image of a
couple harvesting heirloom apples from the Hier farmstead in
Manistee County, Mich., which is discussed in this feature.
 &HT;    -----------------------------------------------
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``l'' lifestyle news and ``a'' general news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By KEITH SCHNEIDER 
 c.1998 The New York Times Co.  

',
			paragraphs: '
   THOMPSONVILLE, Mich. _ I Finally understood why Adam was so
enticed by Eden's apples when we walked for the first time through
our orchard near the northern coast of Lake Michigan.

   More than 100 apple trees _ some gnarled and thick at the trunk
like an old ash, others mere saplings _ stood scattered on a sandy
ridge between the maple forest and a dun-colored meadow.

   It was September 1991, weeks before the fruit fully matured.
Still, the orchard's scent was sweet and inviting.

   A dry summer had produced unblemished apples that hung from the
limbs in a wondrous display of variety and color. Big, red round
apples almost as large as grapefruits were on one tree, and they
had a light, candy taste.

   There were large green apples, a kind that had probably been
stored during the winter in straw-lined pits to be eaten in spring.

   And there were smaller green apples with brown patches that
might have originated from the old Roxbury Russet varieties popular
in northwestern Michigan around the turn of the century.

   As a journalist who covered farming and wrote about modern
agriculture's shrinking genetic resources, I was struck by the
number of varieties, none of which could be found at the markets in
the towns of Benzonia or Frankfort nearby.

   Since the early '70s, plant breeders have worried that the
abundance of the world's food supply is balanced on a narrowing
supply of wild and domestic plant genes.

   For instance, a handful of varieties bred for peak production
make up the bulk of the world's rice harvest. Meanwhile,
irreplaceable genetic traits that enabled old varieties of rice to
grow in harsh conditions have disappeared.

   The same scenario is playing out for wheat, corn, barley,
tomatoes and most other major food plants. Homogenization in the
market is one result. Hunger can be another. The Irish potato
famine was caused by a plant disease that raced through crops
containing no genetic resistance.

   As the new owners of 89 acres of forest, meadow and orchards in
Manistee County, Mich., my wife and I wanted to know more about the
place we had just bought and who had preceded us.

   Although historical records are incomplete, sometime during the
1880s, Hiram Hier moved to the township and built a plain two-story
home for his wife and two children on a rise above Nurnberger Road.

   Like other homesteaders, he planted different varieties of apple
trees _ in his case, three neat rows down the south-facing slope of
the widest ridge on his land.

   During the late 19th century, American farmers were encouraged
to spread seeds and see what came up. Hier almost surely followed
the protocol, as did his neighbors.

   Long growing seasons moderated by Lake Michigan, well-drained
soils and high ridges, which kept untimely frosts at bay, had
already distinguished Michigan's west side as one of the nation's
prime fruit-growing areas.

   By the early 20th century, the fruit belt of northwest and
western Michigan was producing more than 50 commercial varieties of
apples, authorities say. Among the old favorites, some of them
recognizable in my orchard, are Snow apples, which are pure white
to the bite; the Wolf River, a big, round baking apple; Maiden's
Blush, an early ripening yellow apple with a bewitching dark-pink
patch on the side that receives the most sunlight; and Golden
Russet, with skin the color of brown sugar.

   ``At that time, apple varieties were so diverse, it was just
like human beings,'' said John Kilcherman, a farmer in Northport,
Mich., who cultivates 240 heirloom varieties for his thriving
mail-order business. ``There were as many apples as there were
tastes.''

   Two years ago, I walked our land and tried to count the number
of varieties, concluding there were at least 14.

   It was not a simple task. The old trees that Hier had planted
were mostly dead, and a forest of maple and ash had grown up around
them. Hier's son, Lee, was the last to farm the place, and when he
died in the 1960s, deer began spreading the seeds. Young
fruit-bearing trees are now growing throughout the property.

   Whatever the number, I was certain there were more varieties
available than in almost any commercial supermarket.

   Even along the Lake Michigan coast, the center of a $100 million
apple-growing industry, the nation's fourth largest, the markets
offer paltry pickings. Red Delicious, Jonathan and McIntosh are
Michigan's big three. Northern Spy, an old variety, is still grown
widely for use in pies and to make cider.

   Shelf life, texture, uniform ripening and disease resistance are
the most sought-after traits. Distinctive taste is barely in the
first tier of breeding goals.

   Growers, moreover, are reluctant to experiment by introducing
unfamiliar varieties. Production costs are too high and profit
margins too slim, and tearing out a productive orchard to test an
unknown is too big a leap for most growers.

   Fortunately, apples have not descended to the level of the
modern tomato. Cornell University keeps a well-stocked germ-plasm
repository in Geneva, N.Y., which is collecting wild seeds from the
Caspian Sea region and from Kazakhstan.

   Wild apple trees are still so prevalent in this so-called center
of diversity that they constitute 40 percent of the native forest,
said James Luby, an apple breeder and a professor of horticulture
at the University of Minnesota.

   Moreover, there are 6,000 known commercial apple varieties in
the world, a deep reservoir of genetic material for the next
century.

   At this point, I'm more interested in apples developed in the
last century. In mid-May, the blossoms open and our trees look as
if they are covered in snow.

   In October, friends come to pick apples and haul them to
Swanson's mill three miles away to be pressed into the most
delicious tart cider.

   We have baked our apples into crisps and pies, eaten them
straight from the trees and stored some of the harder green ones
into the winter.

   Preserving a diversity of strains may be part of a global
solution. But for us the trees are a source of tastes and pleasures
that are all the more precious because we can't find them anywhere
else.

   -----

   &UR; (Keith Schneider, a former environmental reporter for The New
York Times, is the executive director of the Michigan Land Use
Institute.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0089 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:33 ',
			header: '
A4580 &Cx1f; tab-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-     06-11 1275
',
			slug: ' BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
WHY CARE? 
',
			trailer: '
   Ten years ago, two botanists from the New York Botanical Garden
eagerly hiked up a hill in Haiti to examine what would prove to be
one of only seven known remaining specimens of Attalea
crassispatha, a very rare palm tree.

   To the scientists, the palm, with its unusual flowers and
soaring trunk, was a special, splendid thing. But to the farmer
about to cut it down, it was blocking his plans to expand his
sparse field of stunted corn stalks.

   A polite discussion ensued, recalled Dr. Michael Balick, one of
the botanists. With a Haitian colleague translating, he tried his
best to persuade the farmer to change his mind.

   ``I talked about his children and grandchildren, about the
global value of maintaining biological diversity,'' Balick
explained. ``He said, `But what value is it to me today?'''

   Balick said the hilltop debate in the shadow of the palm was a
turning point, marking when he began to realize that efforts to
preserve the diversity of life cannot rely on abstract arguments,
but must be grounded in reality.

   Since then, he said, he has tailored arguments for preservation
to fit the audience.

   In the case of the Haitian palm tree, only a cash payment for
seeds, from the local forester, changed the farmer's plans. The
farmer agreed to keep the tree and started harvesting its nuts.

   ``He was convinced to begin to preserve it, not only as a source
of nuts, but also for income derived through the sale of the seeds
so the tree could be grown elsewhere,'' Balick said.

   Balick, like most biologists these days, is quick to unreel
stories like this as he advocates actions to protect endangered
species around the world.

   In every field of study, parables have emerged to justify
preservation. Scientists talk of Taxol, the potent breast cancer
drug, found in yew tree bark during a random search of chemicals
extracted from plants of the Pacific Northwest.

   They point to parasitic wasps, the size of pepper flecks, that
are now used instead of insecticides to kill a host of crop pests,
preventing more than $1 billion a year in agricultural losses.

   And they mention powerful antibiotics derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   Some biologists focus not so much on the direct payoff from
maintaining a lode of species, but on the indirect benefits, like
the pollution-filtering properties of marshes or the ability of a
healthy forest to prevent erosion on steep slopes.

   A scientific advocate exists for almost every living thing, even
those that most people loathe.

   For example, Dr. Terry Erwin, an entomologist at the Smithsonian
Institution, is perhaps the world's staunchest booster of beetles.

   Erwin has spent two decades studying the dizzying arrays of
beetles that often inhabit trees in the tropics. His record is
about 1,700 species found in one tree in Peru _ just beetles, just
one tree.

   ``In our everyday experience, insects are usually problems _
mosquitoes, roaches, that kind of thing,'' Erwin said. ``But,
really, 98 percent of all insect species provide ecological
services that keep the environment going.''

   An important service is taking out the garbage, with fly maggots
and dung beetles recycling rotting meat or feces into useful
fertilizers.

   And without the thousands of bees, beetles and other insects
that pollinate flowering plants, Erwin said, ``we'd all be eating
grass.''

   Other scientists say the downside of tampering with an ecosystem
is as critical as the benefits of preserving it.

   As species are removed or a habitat becomes fragmented, the
structure of a richly interlaced community of plants and animals is
more likely to collapse. And when humans invade and transform
landscapes, biologists say, it seems that these degraded areas are
more likely to unleash harmful pests or diseases.

   Some scientists, when pushed, fall back on the esthetic values
that lie in untrammeled nature and the moral imperative of treading
lightly on the Earth.

   One such voice is that of Dr. Michael W. Klemens, a biologist at
the Wildlife Conservation Society who has studied the imperiled
reptiles and amphibians of both Tanzania and the New York suburbs.

   ``A balance and richness of species adds to the richness and
fabric of our own lives,'' Klemens said.

   In conversations with people he has encountered on both
continents, he has found that ``if given a choice, people in Africa
and New York say they would like to have wildlife remain a part of
their existence.''

   Finally, many scientists point to the enormity of the unknowns,
emphasizing that we are destroying thousands of square miles of
rain forest or wetlands before we have even catalogued or named the
resident species, let alone understood their relationships or
possible value.

   But these are the arguments that are least useful on the ground
in the tropics, where much of the destruction is taking place.

   Balick said: ``It's still very important to talk about its
importance for the spirit and soul, for the environment. But some
of our effort must be focused on making a case for direct economic
benefits, to everyone from policy makers ranging right down to
small farmers.''

   There are ways to make a case for preservation based on local
economics, he said, but nothing is as simple as it seems.

   ``Three and a half billion people on the planet use medicinal
plants for some part of primary health care,'' he noted. ``You'd
think if your health depends on something, you'd want to preserve
it.''

   The problem, he said, is that in most places medicinal plants
are still harvested in the wilderness, not grown on farms or on
plantations.

   ``Wild-harvested plants are usually considered more powerful,''
he said. ``And that puts great pressure on ecosystems.''

   Some countries are recognizing the potential value and potential
threat, he said, pointing out that Belize created a medicinal plant
preserve in 1993 and that India has set aside more than 100 such
preserves.

   Perhaps the hardest challenge, biologists say, is to ensure that
a species preserved one year is not imperiled the next.

   The rare Haitian palm tree, for instance, was left standing for
a while. It was already fairly old and has probably died, said Dr.
Andrew Henderson, the other botanist who traveled with Balick to
Haiti.

   Altogether, 26 specimens were located on Haiti, but the trees,
which are isolated and therefore not pollinated, has left the
species essentially extinct.

   ``In reality, it's a goner,'' Henderson said.

   -----

   &UR; (Andrew C. Revkin, a New York Times reporter, has written books
on rain forests and global warming.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (This is one of five special ``one-shot'' features culled from
NATURAL ORDER, a special news section from The New York Times
devoted to biodiversity and environmental issues. For purchase
information _ THE RATE IS NOT PROHIBITIVE _ contact one of these
New York Times Syndicate sales representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``l'' lifestyle news and ``a'' general news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By ANDREW C. REVKIN 
 c.1998 The New York Times Co.  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Ten years ago, two botanists from the New York Botanical Garden
eagerly hiked up a hill in Haiti to examine what would prove to be
one of only seven known remaining specimens of Attalea
crassispatha, a very rare palm tree.

   To the scientists, the palm, with its unusual flowers and
soaring trunk, was a special, splendid thing. But to the farmer
about to cut it down, it was blocking his plans to expand his
sparse field of stunted corn stalks.

   A polite discussion ensued, recalled Dr. Michael Balick, one of
the botanists. With a Haitian colleague translating, he tried his
best to persuade the farmer to change his mind.

   ``I talked about his children and grandchildren, about the
global value of maintaining biological diversity,'' Balick
explained. ``He said, `But what value is it to me today?'''

   Balick said the hilltop debate in the shadow of the palm was a
turning point, marking when he began to realize that efforts to
preserve the diversity of life cannot rely on abstract arguments,
but must be grounded in reality.

   Since then, he said, he has tailored arguments for preservation
to fit the audience.

   In the case of the Haitian palm tree, only a cash payment for
seeds, from the local forester, changed the farmer's plans. The
farmer agreed to keep the tree and started harvesting its nuts.

   ``He was convinced to begin to preserve it, not only as a source
of nuts, but also for income derived through the sale of the seeds
so the tree could be grown elsewhere,'' Balick said.

   Balick, like most biologists these days, is quick to unreel
stories like this as he advocates actions to protect endangered
species around the world.

   In every field of study, parables have emerged to justify
preservation. Scientists talk of Taxol, the potent breast cancer
drug, found in yew tree bark during a random search of chemicals
extracted from plants of the Pacific Northwest.

   They point to parasitic wasps, the size of pepper flecks, that
are now used instead of insecticides to kill a host of crop pests,
preventing more than $1 billion a year in agricultural losses.

   And they mention powerful antibiotics derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   Some biologists focus not so much on the direct payoff from
maintaining a lode of species, but on the indirect benefits, like
the pollution-filtering properties of marshes or the ability of a
healthy forest to prevent erosion on steep slopes.

   A scientific advocate exists for almost every living thing, even
those that most people loathe.

   For example, Dr. Terry Erwin, an entomologist at the Smithsonian
Institution, is perhaps the world's staunchest booster of beetles.

   Erwin has spent two decades studying the dizzying arrays of
beetles that often inhabit trees in the tropics. His record is
about 1,700 species found in one tree in Peru _ just beetles, just
one tree.

   ``In our everyday experience, insects are usually problems _
mosquitoes, roaches, that kind of thing,'' Erwin said. ``But,
really, 98 percent of all insect species provide ecological
services that keep the environment going.''

   An important service is taking out the garbage, with fly maggots
and dung beetles recycling rotting meat or feces into useful
fertilizers.

   And without the thousands of bees, beetles and other insects
that pollinate flowering plants, Erwin said, ``we'd all be eating
grass.''

   Other scientists say the downside of tampering with an ecosystem
is as critical as the benefits of preserving it.

   As species are removed or a habitat becomes fragmented, the
structure of a richly interlaced community of plants and animals is
more likely to collapse. And when humans invade and transform
landscapes, biologists say, it seems that these degraded areas are
more likely to unleash harmful pests or diseases.

   Some scientists, when pushed, fall back on the esthetic values
that lie in untrammeled nature and the moral imperative of treading
lightly on the Earth.

   One such voice is that of Dr. Michael W. Klemens, a biologist at
the Wildlife Conservation Society who has studied the imperiled
reptiles and amphibians of both Tanzania and the New York suburbs.

   ``A balance and richness of species adds to the richness and
fabric of our own lives,'' Klemens said.

   In conversations with people he has encountered on both
continents, he has found that ``if given a choice, people in Africa
and New York say they would like to have wildlife remain a part of
their existence.''

   Finally, many scientists point to the enormity of the unknowns,
emphasizing that we are destroying thousands of square miles of
rain forest or wetlands before we have even catalogued or named the
resident species, let alone understood their relationships or
possible value.

   But these are the arguments that are least useful on the ground
in the tropics, where much of the destruction is taking place.

   Balick said: ``It's still very important to talk about its
importance for the spirit and soul, for the environment. But some
of our effort must be focused on making a case for direct economic
benefits, to everyone from policy makers ranging right down to
small farmers.''

   There are ways to make a case for preservation based on local
economics, he said, but nothing is as simple as it seems.

   ``Three and a half billion people on the planet use medicinal
plants for some part of primary health care,'' he noted. ``You'd
think if your health depends on something, you'd want to preserve
it.''

   The problem, he said, is that in most places medicinal plants
are still harvested in the wilderness, not grown on farms or on
plantations.

   ``Wild-harvested plants are usually considered more powerful,''
he said. ``And that puts great pressure on ecosystems.''

   Some countries are recognizing the potential value and potential
threat, he said, pointing out that Belize created a medicinal plant
preserve in 1993 and that India has set aside more than 100 such
preserves.

   Perhaps the hardest challenge, biologists say, is to ensure that
a species preserved one year is not imperiled the next.

   The rare Haitian palm tree, for instance, was left standing for
a while. It was already fairly old and has probably died, said Dr.
Andrew Henderson, the other botanist who traveled with Balick to
Haiti.

   Altogether, 26 specimens were located on Haiti, but the trees,
which are isolated and therefore not pollinated, has left the
species essentially extinct.

   ``In reality, it's a goner,'' Henderson said.

   -----

   &UR; (Andrew C. Revkin, a New York Times reporter, has written books
on rain forests and global warming.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0090 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:33 ',
			header: '
A4581 &Cx1f; tab-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-     06-11 1275
',
			slug: ' BC-EXTRA-WHY-CARE-ABOUT-PRESERVATION?-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
WHY CARE? 
',
			trailer: '
   Ten years ago, two botanists from the New York Botanical Garden
eagerly hiked up a hill in Haiti to examine what would prove to be
one of only seven known remaining specimens of Attalea
crassispatha, a very rare palm tree.

   To the scientists, the palm, with its unusual flowers and
soaring trunk, was a special, splendid thing. But to the farmer
about to cut it down, it was blocking his plans to expand his
sparse field of stunted corn stalks.

   A polite discussion ensued, recalled Dr. Michael Balick, one of
the botanists. With a Haitian colleague translating, he tried his
best to persuade the farmer to change his mind.

   ``I talked about his children and grandchildren, about the
global value of maintaining biological diversity,'' Balick
explained. ``He said, `But what value is it to me today?'''

   Balick said the hilltop debate in the shadow of the palm was a
turning point, marking when he began to realize that efforts to
preserve the diversity of life cannot rely on abstract arguments,
but must be grounded in reality.

   Since then, he said, he has tailored arguments for preservation
to fit the audience.

   In the case of the Haitian palm tree, only a cash payment for
seeds, from the local forester, changed the farmer's plans. The
farmer agreed to keep the tree and started harvesting its nuts.

   ``He was convinced to begin to preserve it, not only as a source
of nuts, but also for income derived through the sale of the seeds
so the tree could be grown elsewhere,'' Balick said.

   Balick, like most biologists these days, is quick to unreel
stories like this as he advocates actions to protect endangered
species around the world.

   In every field of study, parables have emerged to justify
preservation. Scientists talk of Taxol, the potent breast cancer
drug, found in yew tree bark during a random search of chemicals
extracted from plants of the Pacific Northwest.

   They point to parasitic wasps, the size of pepper flecks, that
are now used instead of insecticides to kill a host of crop pests,
preventing more than $1 billion a year in agricultural losses.

   And they mention powerful antibiotics derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   Some biologists focus not so much on the direct payoff from
maintaining a lode of species, but on the indirect benefits, like
the pollution-filtering properties of marshes or the ability of a
healthy forest to prevent erosion on steep slopes.

   A scientific advocate exists for almost every living thing, even
those that most people loathe.

   For example, Dr. Terry Erwin, an entomologist at the Smithsonian
Institution, is perhaps the world's staunchest booster of beetles.

   Erwin has spent two decades studying the dizzying arrays of
beetles that often inhabit trees in the tropics. His record is
about 1,700 species found in one tree in Peru _ just beetles, just
one tree.

   ``In our everyday experience, insects are usually problems _
mosquitoes, roaches, that kind of thing,'' Erwin said. ``But,
really, 98 percent of all insect species provide ecological
services that keep the environment going.''

   An important service is taking out the garbage, with fly maggots
and dung beetles recycling rotting meat or feces into useful
fertilizers.

   And without the thousands of bees, beetles and other insects
that pollinate flowering plants, Erwin said, ``we'd all be eating
grass.''

   Other scientists say the downside of tampering with an ecosystem
is as critical as the benefits of preserving it.

   As species are removed or a habitat becomes fragmented, the
structure of a richly interlaced community of plants and animals is
more likely to collapse. And when humans invade and transform
landscapes, biologists say, it seems that these degraded areas are
more likely to unleash harmful pests or diseases.

   Some scientists, when pushed, fall back on the esthetic values
that lie in untrammeled nature and the moral imperative of treading
lightly on the Earth.

   One such voice is that of Dr. Michael W. Klemens, a biologist at
the Wildlife Conservation Society who has studied the imperiled
reptiles and amphibians of both Tanzania and the New York suburbs.

   ``A balance and richness of species adds to the richness and
fabric of our own lives,'' Klemens said.

   In conversations with people he has encountered on both
continents, he has found that ``if given a choice, people in Africa
and New York say they would like to have wildlife remain a part of
their existence.''

   Finally, many scientists point to the enormity of the unknowns,
emphasizing that we are destroying thousands of square miles of
rain forest or wetlands before we have even catalogued or named the
resident species, let alone understood their relationships or
possible value.

   But these are the arguments that are least useful on the ground
in the tropics, where much of the destruction is taking place.

   Balick said: ``It's still very important to talk about its
importance for the spirit and soul, for the environment. But some
of our effort must be focused on making a case for direct economic
benefits, to everyone from policy makers ranging right down to
small farmers.''

   There are ways to make a case for preservation based on local
economics, he said, but nothing is as simple as it seems.

   ``Three and a half billion people on the planet use medicinal
plants for some part of primary health care,'' he noted. ``You'd
think if your health depends on something, you'd want to preserve
it.''

   The problem, he said, is that in most places medicinal plants
are still harvested in the wilderness, not grown on farms or on
plantations.

   ``Wild-harvested plants are usually considered more powerful,''
he said. ``And that puts great pressure on ecosystems.''

   Some countries are recognizing the potential value and potential
threat, he said, pointing out that Belize created a medicinal plant
preserve in 1993 and that India has set aside more than 100 such
preserves.

   Perhaps the hardest challenge, biologists say, is to ensure that
a species preserved one year is not imperiled the next.

   The rare Haitian palm tree, for instance, was left standing for
a while. It was already fairly old and has probably died, said Dr.
Andrew Henderson, the other botanist who traveled with Balick to
Haiti.

   Altogether, 26 specimens were located on Haiti, but the trees,
which are isolated and therefore not pollinated, has left the
species essentially extinct.

   ``In reality, it's a goner,'' Henderson said.

   -----

   &UR; (Andrew C. Revkin, a New York Times reporter, has written books
on rain forests and global warming.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (This is one of five special ``one-shot'' features culled from
NATURAL ORDER, a special news section from The New York Times
devoted to biodiversity and environmental issues. For purchase
information _ THE RATE IS NOT PROHIBITIVE _ contact one of these
New York Times Syndicate sales representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``l'' lifestyle news and ``a'' general news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By ANDREW C. REVKIN 
 c.1998 The New York Times Co.  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Ten years ago, two botanists from the New York Botanical Garden
eagerly hiked up a hill in Haiti to examine what would prove to be
one of only seven known remaining specimens of Attalea
crassispatha, a very rare palm tree.

   To the scientists, the palm, with its unusual flowers and
soaring trunk, was a special, splendid thing. But to the farmer
about to cut it down, it was blocking his plans to expand his
sparse field of stunted corn stalks.

   A polite discussion ensued, recalled Dr. Michael Balick, one of
the botanists. With a Haitian colleague translating, he tried his
best to persuade the farmer to change his mind.

   ``I talked about his children and grandchildren, about the
global value of maintaining biological diversity,'' Balick
explained. ``He said, `But what value is it to me today?'''

   Balick said the hilltop debate in the shadow of the palm was a
turning point, marking when he began to realize that efforts to
preserve the diversity of life cannot rely on abstract arguments,
but must be grounded in reality.

   Since then, he said, he has tailored arguments for preservation
to fit the audience.

   In the case of the Haitian palm tree, only a cash payment for
seeds, from the local forester, changed the farmer's plans. The
farmer agreed to keep the tree and started harvesting its nuts.

   ``He was convinced to begin to preserve it, not only as a source
of nuts, but also for income derived through the sale of the seeds
so the tree could be grown elsewhere,'' Balick said.

   Balick, like most biologists these days, is quick to unreel
stories like this as he advocates actions to protect endangered
species around the world.

   In every field of study, parables have emerged to justify
preservation. Scientists talk of Taxol, the potent breast cancer
drug, found in yew tree bark during a random search of chemicals
extracted from plants of the Pacific Northwest.

   They point to parasitic wasps, the size of pepper flecks, that
are now used instead of insecticides to kill a host of crop pests,
preventing more than $1 billion a year in agricultural losses.

   And they mention powerful antibiotics derived from the skin of
African clawed frogs and from microbes in New Jersey mud.

   Some biologists focus not so much on the direct payoff from
maintaining a lode of species, but on the indirect benefits, like
the pollution-filtering properties of marshes or the ability of a
healthy forest to prevent erosion on steep slopes.

   A scientific advocate exists for almost every living thing, even
those that most people loathe.

   For example, Dr. Terry Erwin, an entomologist at the Smithsonian
Institution, is perhaps the world's staunchest booster of beetles.

   Erwin has spent two decades studying the dizzying arrays of
beetles that often inhabit trees in the tropics. His record is
about 1,700 species found in one tree in Peru _ just beetles, just
one tree.

   ``In our everyday experience, insects are usually problems _
mosquitoes, roaches, that kind of thing,'' Erwin said. ``But,
really, 98 percent of all insect species provide ecological
services that keep the environment going.''

   An important service is taking out the garbage, with fly maggots
and dung beetles recycling rotting meat or feces into useful
fertilizers.

   And without the thousands of bees, beetles and other insects
that pollinate flowering plants, Erwin said, ``we'd all be eating
grass.''

   Other scientists say the downside of tampering with an ecosystem
is as critical as the benefits of preserving it.

   As species are removed or a habitat becomes fragmented, the
structure of a richly interlaced community of plants and animals is
more likely to collapse. And when humans invade and transform
landscapes, biologists say, it seems that these degraded areas are
more likely to unleash harmful pests or diseases.

   Some scientists, when pushed, fall back on the esthetic values
that lie in untrammeled nature and the moral imperative of treading
lightly on the Earth.

   One such voice is that of Dr. Michael W. Klemens, a biologist at
the Wildlife Conservation Society who has studied the imperiled
reptiles and amphibians of both Tanzania and the New York suburbs.

   ``A balance and richness of species adds to the richness and
fabric of our own lives,'' Klemens said.

   In conversations with people he has encountered on both
continents, he has found that ``if given a choice, people in Africa
and New York say they would like to have wildlife remain a part of
their existence.''

   Finally, many scientists point to the enormity of the unknowns,
emphasizing that we are destroying thousands of square miles of
rain forest or wetlands before we have even catalogued or named the
resident species, let alone understood their relationships or
possible value.

   But these are the arguments that are least useful on the ground
in the tropics, where much of the destruction is taking place.

   Balick said: ``It's still very important to talk about its
importance for the spirit and soul, for the environment. But some
of our effort must be focused on making a case for direct economic
benefits, to everyone from policy makers ranging right down to
small farmers.''

   There are ways to make a case for preservation based on local
economics, he said, but nothing is as simple as it seems.

   ``Three and a half billion people on the planet use medicinal
plants for some part of primary health care,'' he noted. ``You'd
think if your health depends on something, you'd want to preserve
it.''

   The problem, he said, is that in most places medicinal plants
are still harvested in the wilderness, not grown on farms or on
plantations.

   ``Wild-harvested plants are usually considered more powerful,''
he said. ``And that puts great pressure on ecosystems.''

   Some countries are recognizing the potential value and potential
threat, he said, pointing out that Belize created a medicinal plant
preserve in 1993 and that India has set aside more than 100 such
preserves.

   Perhaps the hardest challenge, biologists say, is to ensure that
a species preserved one year is not imperiled the next.

   The rare Haitian palm tree, for instance, was left standing for
a while. It was already fairly old and has probably died, said Dr.
Andrew Henderson, the other botanist who traveled with Balick to
Haiti.

   Altogether, 26 specimens were located on Haiti, but the trees,
which are isolated and therefore not pollinated, has left the
species essentially extinct.

   ``In reality, it's a goner,'' Henderson said.

   -----

   &UR; (Andrew C. Revkin, a New York Times reporter, has written books
on rain forests and global warming.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0091 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:34 ',
			header: '
A4582 &Cx1f; tab-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-T     06-11 1255
',
			slug: ' BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE 
',
			trailer: '
   In the big picture and in the long run, it's true: To paraphrase
Yosemite Sam, there is biological gold in them thar rain forests.

   The active ingredient in roughly one in four prescription drugs
comes from plants. And biotechnology companies are eager to gain
access to exotic environments containing tens of millions of plant
and animal species that have yet to be scrutinized.

   In the most visible deal, Merck, the giant pharmaceutical maker,
is paying Costa Rica cash plus royalties to preserve the country's
fragile tropical forests.

   But economists speak with virtually one voice in warning that
biodiversity is not going to pay for itself. The creation of
property rights in the wilderness can play only a minor role in
protecting endangered habitats.

   ``The potential return to bioprospecting has been greatly
exaggerated,'' argued David Simpson, a senior fellow at Resources
for the Future, an environmental research organization in
Washington.

   As a result, the major contribution of economics in the
biodiversity debate will likely be the forcing of policy makers to
deal more realistically with intangible, nonuse values. That is the
kind of thing usually left to philosophers. And since such
intangibles are more immediately interesting to the citizens of
affluent countries than to the largely poor custodians of tropical
``hot spots'' of biodiversity, the lesson's starting point is that
there are no free rain forests.

   ``In the end, species preservation comes down to tradeoffs _ in
deciding how much we are willing to sacrifice in the name of
preserving natural habitats,'' concluded Martin Weitzman, an
economist at Harvard.

   Like everyone else, economists assume that the keys to
everything, from more effective drugs to more nutritious,
disease-resistant crops, are secreted in tropical forests. Why,
then, isn't the repository for these natural wonders valued
accordingly?

   What counts, Simpson said, is scarcity. And while there may be
millions of potentially useful species, there is also vast
biochemical redundancy in the environment. Thus the value of any
acre is limited by the fact that an identical species probably
grows on thousands of other acres, and that many of the useful
chemicals will show up in hundreds or even thousands of species.

   Evolution decreed, after all, that both coffee and tea contain
caffeine as a defense against predators. And where naturally
occurring chemicals are extremely rare, the value of looking for
them is offset by the high cost of such a task.

   Simpson and Roger Sedjo and John Reid, his colleagues at
Resources for the Future, estimated the potential value of
preservation in 18 biodiversity hot spots around the world. And
while their figures are necessarily crude _ extrapolating from
useful new chemicals found in exotic environments and the cost of
developing drugs from them _ they are deliberately designed to err
on the high side.

   Whatever the ultimate value of undiscovered species might be,
the three researchers calculate that the current bioprospecting
rights for pharmaceuticals are worth a maximum of $8 an acre in
western Ecuador to $2 an acre in the Philippines to a mere 40 cents
an acre in the eastern Himalayas. That may be enough to justify
biosurveys, but hardly counters pressure for other uses like
grazing or gathering firewood.

   ``If anything,'' Simpson said, ``exaggerated claims of the
pharmaceutical companies' willingness to pay to preserve exotic
environments has been counterproductive,'' as poor countries balk
at what they view as efforts to claim their natural treasures for a
song.

   In the stalemate, rain forests continue to be destroyed by
farmers and prospectors seeking short-term gains.

   This doesn't mean biodiversity has little value, said Robert
Stavins, an environmental economist at the Kennedy School of
Government at Harvard. But it implies that ``the lion's share of
the value is intangible,'' Stavins said.

   That said, what can economists contribute to the debate? For
one, they can help a society sort through its priorities by looking
at what people are willing to pay to support those values. The
evidence is that public policy toward endangered species reflects
only the narrowest of concerns.

   In research to be published this summer in the Journal of
Economic Perspectives, Weitzman and Andrew Metrick, a Harvard
colleague, look for the priorities reflected by the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service's spending to protect 142 invertebrate
species that are listed as endangered.

   You would expect that the biological distinctiveness of a
species would increase its standing. So ought the probability that
intervention would preserve the species. Last but hardly least is
cost: With limited funds, priorities should reflect the resources
needed to keep the species intact.

   In fact, the Metrick-Weitzman analysis shows that the more
endangered a species is, the less money is spent to preserve it.
And the higher the cost of preserving a species in terms of
dislocating economic activities, the higher the priority the
species gets.

   Genetic uniqueness seems to play little or no role in priority.
Think of the northern spotted owl.

   What seems to count most in determining spending priorities are
size (the bigger the better) and taxonomy.

   Mammals and birds, which economists dub ``charismatic
megafauna,'' are popular with preservationists, while amphibians
and fish go to the rear of the class.

   Stavins put it more plainly. The species we defend most
aggressively, he said, are ``warm and cuddly.''

   That may worry biologists who are concerned about the potential
disappearance of broad categories of plants and smaller animals
that help knit healthy ecosystems. But the focus on fur balls may
or may not bother taxpayers.

   Economists have no business telling people what they should
value, Weitzman argued, but they have plenty to contribute on the
subject of rationality.

   If we are committed to biodiversity, economists can help make
the cost-benefit calculations critical to obtaining the most bang
for a buck. And they can help people to think seriously about how
to provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   ``If not,'' Mr. Weitzman said, ``then we should be honest about
our desire to have charismatic megafauna effects dominate our
decisions.''

   -----

   (Peter Passell is a reporter who writes about economics for The
New York Times.)
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (This is one of five special ``one-shot'' features culled from
NATURAL ORDER, a special news section from The New York Times
devoted to biodiversity and environmental issues. For purchase
information _ THE RATE IS NOT PROHIBITIVE _ contact one of these
New York Times Syndicate sales representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``l'' lifestyle news and ``a'' general news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By PETER PASSELL 
 c.1998 The New York Times Co.  

',
			paragraphs: '
   In the big picture and in the long run, it's true: To paraphrase
Yosemite Sam, there is biological gold in them thar rain forests.

   The active ingredient in roughly one in four prescription drugs
comes from plants. And biotechnology companies are eager to gain
access to exotic environments containing tens of millions of plant
and animal species that have yet to be scrutinized.

   In the most visible deal, Merck, the giant pharmaceutical maker,
is paying Costa Rica cash plus royalties to preserve the country's
fragile tropical forests.

   But economists speak with virtually one voice in warning that
biodiversity is not going to pay for itself. The creation of
property rights in the wilderness can play only a minor role in
protecting endangered habitats.

   ``The potential return to bioprospecting has been greatly
exaggerated,'' argued David Simpson, a senior fellow at Resources
for the Future, an environmental research organization in
Washington.

   As a result, the major contribution of economics in the
biodiversity debate will likely be the forcing of policy makers to
deal more realistically with intangible, nonuse values. That is the
kind of thing usually left to philosophers. And since such
intangibles are more immediately interesting to the citizens of
affluent countries than to the largely poor custodians of tropical
``hot spots'' of biodiversity, the lesson's starting point is that
there are no free rain forests.

   ``In the end, species preservation comes down to tradeoffs _ in
deciding how much we are willing to sacrifice in the name of
preserving natural habitats,'' concluded Martin Weitzman, an
economist at Harvard.

   Like everyone else, economists assume that the keys to
everything, from more effective drugs to more nutritious,
disease-resistant crops, are secreted in tropical forests. Why,
then, isn't the repository for these natural wonders valued
accordingly?

   What counts, Simpson said, is scarcity. And while there may be
millions of potentially useful species, there is also vast
biochemical redundancy in the environment. Thus the value of any
acre is limited by the fact that an identical species probably
grows on thousands of other acres, and that many of the useful
chemicals will show up in hundreds or even thousands of species.

   Evolution decreed, after all, that both coffee and tea contain
caffeine as a defense against predators. And where naturally
occurring chemicals are extremely rare, the value of looking for
them is offset by the high cost of such a task.

   Simpson and Roger Sedjo and John Reid, his colleagues at
Resources for the Future, estimated the potential value of
preservation in 18 biodiversity hot spots around the world. And
while their figures are necessarily crude _ extrapolating from
useful new chemicals found in exotic environments and the cost of
developing drugs from them _ they are deliberately designed to err
on the high side.

   Whatever the ultimate value of undiscovered species might be,
the three researchers calculate that the current bioprospecting
rights for pharmaceuticals are worth a maximum of $8 an acre in
western Ecuador to $2 an acre in the Philippines to a mere 40 cents
an acre in the eastern Himalayas. That may be enough to justify
biosurveys, but hardly counters pressure for other uses like
grazing or gathering firewood.

   ``If anything,'' Simpson said, ``exaggerated claims of the
pharmaceutical companies' willingness to pay to preserve exotic
environments has been counterproductive,'' as poor countries balk
at what they view as efforts to claim their natural treasures for a
song.

   In the stalemate, rain forests continue to be destroyed by
farmers and prospectors seeking short-term gains.

   This doesn't mean biodiversity has little value, said Robert
Stavins, an environmental economist at the Kennedy School of
Government at Harvard. But it implies that ``the lion's share of
the value is intangible,'' Stavins said.

   That said, what can economists contribute to the debate? For
one, they can help a society sort through its priorities by looking
at what people are willing to pay to support those values. The
evidence is that public policy toward endangered species reflects
only the narrowest of concerns.

   In research to be published this summer in the Journal of
Economic Perspectives, Weitzman and Andrew Metrick, a Harvard
colleague, look for the priorities reflected by the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service's spending to protect 142 invertebrate
species that are listed as endangered.

   You would expect that the biological distinctiveness of a
species would increase its standing. So ought the probability that
intervention would preserve the species. Last but hardly least is
cost: With limited funds, priorities should reflect the resources
needed to keep the species intact.

   In fact, the Metrick-Weitzman analysis shows that the more
endangered a species is, the less money is spent to preserve it.
And the higher the cost of preserving a species in terms of
dislocating economic activities, the higher the priority the
species gets.

   Genetic uniqueness seems to play little or no role in priority.
Think of the northern spotted owl.

   What seems to count most in determining spending priorities are
size (the bigger the better) and taxonomy.

   Mammals and birds, which economists dub ``charismatic
megafauna,'' are popular with preservationists, while amphibians
and fish go to the rear of the class.

   Stavins put it more plainly. The species we defend most
aggressively, he said, are ``warm and cuddly.''

   That may worry biologists who are concerned about the potential
disappearance of broad categories of plants and smaller animals
that help knit healthy ecosystems. But the focus on fur balls may
or may not bother taxpayers.

   Economists have no business telling people what they should
value, Weitzman argued, but they have plenty to contribute on the
subject of rationality.

   If we are committed to biodiversity, economists can help make
the cost-benefit calculations critical to obtaining the most bang
for a buck. And they can help people to think seriously about how
to provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   ``If not,'' Mr. Weitzman said, ``then we should be honest about
our desire to have charismatic megafauna effects dominate our
decisions.''

   -----

   (Peter Passell is a reporter who writes about economics for The
New York Times.)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0092 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:34 ',
			header: '
A4583 &Cx1f; tab-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-T     06-11 1255
',
			slug: ' BC-EXTRA-ECONOMISTS-IN-THE-RAIN-FOREST-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
FOR ECONOMISTS, THE VALUE OF PRESERVATION BEYOND PRICE 
',
			trailer: '
   In the big picture and in the long run, it's true: To paraphrase
Yosemite Sam, there is biological gold in them thar rain forests.

   The active ingredient in roughly one in four prescription drugs
comes from plants. And biotechnology companies are eager to gain
access to exotic environments containing tens of millions of plant
and animal species that have yet to be scrutinized.

   In the most visible deal, Merck, the giant pharmaceutical maker,
is paying Costa Rica cash plus royalties to preserve the country's
fragile tropical forests.

   But economists speak with virtually one voice in warning that
biodiversity is not going to pay for itself. The creation of
property rights in the wilderness can play only a minor role in
protecting endangered habitats.

   ``The potential return to bioprospecting has been greatly
exaggerated,'' argued David Simpson, a senior fellow at Resources
for the Future, an environmental research organization in
Washington.

   As a result, the major contribution of economics in the
biodiversity debate will likely be the forcing of policy makers to
deal more realistically with intangible, nonuse values. That is the
kind of thing usually left to philosophers. And since such
intangibles are more immediately interesting to the citizens of
affluent countries than to the largely poor custodians of tropical
``hot spots'' of biodiversity, the lesson's starting point is that
there are no free rain forests.

   ``In the end, species preservation comes down to tradeoffs _ in
deciding how much we are willing to sacrifice in the name of
preserving natural habitats,'' concluded Martin Weitzman, an
economist at Harvard.

   Like everyone else, economists assume that the keys to
everything, from more effective drugs to more nutritious,
disease-resistant crops, are secreted in tropical forests. Why,
then, isn't the repository for these natural wonders valued
accordingly?

   What counts, Simpson said, is scarcity. And while there may be
millions of potentially useful species, there is also vast
biochemical redundancy in the environment. Thus the value of any
acre is limited by the fact that an identical species probably
grows on thousands of other acres, and that many of the useful
chemicals will show up in hundreds or even thousands of species.

   Evolution decreed, after all, that both coffee and tea contain
caffeine as a defense against predators. And where naturally
occurring chemicals are extremely rare, the value of looking for
them is offset by the high cost of such a task.

   Simpson and Roger Sedjo and John Reid, his colleagues at
Resources for the Future, estimated the potential value of
preservation in 18 biodiversity hot spots around the world. And
while their figures are necessarily crude _ extrapolating from
useful new chemicals found in exotic environments and the cost of
developing drugs from them _ they are deliberately designed to err
on the high side.

   Whatever the ultimate value of undiscovered species might be,
the three researchers calculate that the current bioprospecting
rights for pharmaceuticals are worth a maximum of $8 an acre in
western Ecuador to $2 an acre in the Philippines to a mere 40 cents
an acre in the eastern Himalayas. That may be enough to justify
biosurveys, but hardly counters pressure for other uses like
grazing or gathering firewood.

   ``If anything,'' Simpson said, ``exaggerated claims of the
pharmaceutical companies' willingness to pay to preserve exotic
environments has been counterproductive,'' as poor countries balk
at what they view as efforts to claim their natural treasures for a
song.

   In the stalemate, rain forests continue to be destroyed by
farmers and prospectors seeking short-term gains.

   This doesn't mean biodiversity has little value, said Robert
Stavins, an environmental economist at the Kennedy School of
Government at Harvard. But it implies that ``the lion's share of
the value is intangible,'' Stavins said.

   That said, what can economists contribute to the debate? For
one, they can help a society sort through its priorities by looking
at what people are willing to pay to support those values. The
evidence is that public policy toward endangered species reflects
only the narrowest of concerns.

   In research to be published this summer in the Journal of
Economic Perspectives, Weitzman and Andrew Metrick, a Harvard
colleague, look for the priorities reflected by the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service's spending to protect 142 invertebrate
species that are listed as endangered.

   You would expect that the biological distinctiveness of a
species would increase its standing. So ought the probability that
intervention would preserve the species. Last but hardly least is
cost: With limited funds, priorities should reflect the resources
needed to keep the species intact.

   In fact, the Metrick-Weitzman analysis shows that the more
endangered a species is, the less money is spent to preserve it.
And the higher the cost of preserving a species in terms of
dislocating economic activities, the higher the priority the
species gets.

   Genetic uniqueness seems to play little or no role in priority.
Think of the northern spotted owl.

   What seems to count most in determining spending priorities are
size (the bigger the better) and taxonomy.

   Mammals and birds, which economists dub ``charismatic
megafauna,'' are popular with preservationists, while amphibians
and fish go to the rear of the class.

   Stavins put it more plainly. The species we defend most
aggressively, he said, are ``warm and cuddly.''

   That may worry biologists who are concerned about the potential
disappearance of broad categories of plants and smaller animals
that help knit healthy ecosystems. But the focus on fur balls may
or may not bother taxpayers.

   Economists have no business telling people what they should
value, Weitzman argued, but they have plenty to contribute on the
subject of rationality.

   If we are committed to biodiversity, economists can help make
the cost-benefit calculations critical to obtaining the most bang
for a buck. And they can help people to think seriously about how
to provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   ``If not,'' Mr. Weitzman said, ``then we should be honest about
our desire to have charismatic megafauna effects dominate our
decisions.''

   -----

   (Peter Passell is a reporter who writes about economics for The
New York Times.)
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (This is one of five special ``one-shot'' features culled from
NATURAL ORDER, a special news section from The New York Times
devoted to biodiversity and environmental issues. For purchase
information _ THE RATE IS NOT PROHIBITIVE _ contact one of these
New York Times Syndicate sales representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.)
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``l'' lifestyle news and ``a'' general news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By PETER PASSELL 
 c.1998 The New York Times Co.  

',
			paragraphs: '
   In the big picture and in the long run, it's true: To paraphrase
Yosemite Sam, there is biological gold in them thar rain forests.

   The active ingredient in roughly one in four prescription drugs
comes from plants. And biotechnology companies are eager to gain
access to exotic environments containing tens of millions of plant
and animal species that have yet to be scrutinized.

   In the most visible deal, Merck, the giant pharmaceutical maker,
is paying Costa Rica cash plus royalties to preserve the country's
fragile tropical forests.

   But economists speak with virtually one voice in warning that
biodiversity is not going to pay for itself. The creation of
property rights in the wilderness can play only a minor role in
protecting endangered habitats.

   ``The potential return to bioprospecting has been greatly
exaggerated,'' argued David Simpson, a senior fellow at Resources
for the Future, an environmental research organization in
Washington.

   As a result, the major contribution of economics in the
biodiversity debate will likely be the forcing of policy makers to
deal more realistically with intangible, nonuse values. That is the
kind of thing usually left to philosophers. And since such
intangibles are more immediately interesting to the citizens of
affluent countries than to the largely poor custodians of tropical
``hot spots'' of biodiversity, the lesson's starting point is that
there are no free rain forests.

   ``In the end, species preservation comes down to tradeoffs _ in
deciding how much we are willing to sacrifice in the name of
preserving natural habitats,'' concluded Martin Weitzman, an
economist at Harvard.

   Like everyone else, economists assume that the keys to
everything, from more effective drugs to more nutritious,
disease-resistant crops, are secreted in tropical forests. Why,
then, isn't the repository for these natural wonders valued
accordingly?

   What counts, Simpson said, is scarcity. And while there may be
millions of potentially useful species, there is also vast
biochemical redundancy in the environment. Thus the value of any
acre is limited by the fact that an identical species probably
grows on thousands of other acres, and that many of the useful
chemicals will show up in hundreds or even thousands of species.

   Evolution decreed, after all, that both coffee and tea contain
caffeine as a defense against predators. And where naturally
occurring chemicals are extremely rare, the value of looking for
them is offset by the high cost of such a task.

   Simpson and Roger Sedjo and John Reid, his colleagues at
Resources for the Future, estimated the potential value of
preservation in 18 biodiversity hot spots around the world. And
while their figures are necessarily crude _ extrapolating from
useful new chemicals found in exotic environments and the cost of
developing drugs from them _ they are deliberately designed to err
on the high side.

   Whatever the ultimate value of undiscovered species might be,
the three researchers calculate that the current bioprospecting
rights for pharmaceuticals are worth a maximum of $8 an acre in
western Ecuador to $2 an acre in the Philippines to a mere 40 cents
an acre in the eastern Himalayas. That may be enough to justify
biosurveys, but hardly counters pressure for other uses like
grazing or gathering firewood.

   ``If anything,'' Simpson said, ``exaggerated claims of the
pharmaceutical companies' willingness to pay to preserve exotic
environments has been counterproductive,'' as poor countries balk
at what they view as efforts to claim their natural treasures for a
song.

   In the stalemate, rain forests continue to be destroyed by
farmers and prospectors seeking short-term gains.

   This doesn't mean biodiversity has little value, said Robert
Stavins, an environmental economist at the Kennedy School of
Government at Harvard. But it implies that ``the lion's share of
the value is intangible,'' Stavins said.

   That said, what can economists contribute to the debate? For
one, they can help a society sort through its priorities by looking
at what people are willing to pay to support those values. The
evidence is that public policy toward endangered species reflects
only the narrowest of concerns.

   In research to be published this summer in the Journal of
Economic Perspectives, Weitzman and Andrew Metrick, a Harvard
colleague, look for the priorities reflected by the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service's spending to protect 142 invertebrate
species that are listed as endangered.

   You would expect that the biological distinctiveness of a
species would increase its standing. So ought the probability that
intervention would preserve the species. Last but hardly least is
cost: With limited funds, priorities should reflect the resources
needed to keep the species intact.

   In fact, the Metrick-Weitzman analysis shows that the more
endangered a species is, the less money is spent to preserve it.
And the higher the cost of preserving a species in terms of
dislocating economic activities, the higher the priority the
species gets.

   Genetic uniqueness seems to play little or no role in priority.
Think of the northern spotted owl.

   What seems to count most in determining spending priorities are
size (the bigger the better) and taxonomy.

   Mammals and birds, which economists dub ``charismatic
megafauna,'' are popular with preservationists, while amphibians
and fish go to the rear of the class.

   Stavins put it more plainly. The species we defend most
aggressively, he said, are ``warm and cuddly.''

   That may worry biologists who are concerned about the potential
disappearance of broad categories of plants and smaller animals
that help knit healthy ecosystems. But the focus on fur balls may
or may not bother taxpayers.

   Economists have no business telling people what they should
value, Weitzman argued, but they have plenty to contribute on the
subject of rationality.

   If we are committed to biodiversity, economists can help make
the cost-benefit calculations critical to obtaining the most bang
for a buck. And they can help people to think seriously about how
to provide the financial incentives to poor countries to preserve
habitats that matter little to peasant farmers.

   ``If not,'' Mr. Weitzman said, ``then we should be honest about
our desire to have charismatic megafauna effects dominate our
decisions.''

   -----

   (Peter Passell is a reporter who writes about economics for The
New York Times.)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0093 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:47 ',
			header: '
A4602 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PELOSI-CHINA-HNS &LR;      06-11 0613
',
			slug: ' BC-PELOSI-CHINA-HNS ',
			headline: '
PELOSI BLASTS CLINTON ADMINISTRATION'S CHINA POLICY 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Rep. Nancy Pelosi sharpened her attacks on
President Clinton's China policy Thursday, saying the president is
``either in denial or ill-informed about what's going on in
China.''

   The San Francisco Democrat said the Clinton administration
hasn't been aggressive enough in confronting China on three fronts:
nuclear proliferation, trade practices and human rights abuses.

   ``I think it's a flawed and failed policy,'' she said, referring
to the administration's approach. ``How much do we squander of our
leverage by following the Clinton path?''

   Pelosi, who has been harshly critical of the administration for
granting most-favored-nation trading status to China, told
reporters that the ``big business'' community, which wants to keep
trade channels open with China, has Clinton's ear and is driving
U.S. policy ``at the expense of promoting our values.''

   ``Our trade policy is controlled by exporting elites,'' who
``for their piece of the China market are willing to exploit
others,'' Pelosi said.

   Pelosi also said Clinton's planned trip to China June 24 is
``unfortunate,'' and questioned the timing of it.

   ``When a president goes on a trip of this high level he should
have achievable goals,'' Pelosi said. ``I have not seen a trip less
diplomatically prepared for in a long time.''

   The Clinton administration has defended the trip, saying it
needs to engage China on such issues as the financial crisis in
Indonesia and Thailand and the underground nuclear tests by India
and Pakistan.

   The trip is the first by a U.S. president since the 1989
Tiananmen Square crackdown where hundreds of protesters were
killed.

   Pelosi's comments follow a crescendo of attacks by congressional
Republicans on Clinton's China policy.

   More than 160 Republicans have signed a letter urging Clinton to
postpone the trip, spurred into action by an April disclosure that
Clinton had approved the export of American space technology to
China. Republican leaders say the export may have jeopardized U.S.
security by helping China develop its missile capabilities.

   Pelosi said ``there's no question the Chinese capability is
improved by our transfer of technology to them.''

   She handed out 1997 documents from the Office of Naval
Intelligence indicating China has exported technology and supplies
for weapons of mass destruction to Iran and Pakistan.

   She also complained that high Chinese tariffs limit access to
the Chinese market for U.S. products. The U.S. trade deficit with
China has soared from $3 billion in 1989 to $50 billion in 1997 and
is projected to reach more than $63 billion in 1998, according to
the U.S. Department of Commerce.

   Pelosi faulted the Chinese government for holding hundreds of
political prisoners without trial and continuing a ``brutal
repression'' of the religion, people and culture of Tibet.

   Pelosi said Clinton is wrong to talking about the
``post-Tiananmen Square era,'' adding ``We're not in the
post-Tiananmen era'' until political prisoners are freed and others
are able to speak freely.

   Despite China's record on nuclear proliferation, unfair trade
practices and human rights abuses, Clinton has ``catered to them in
every way,'' Pelosi said. ``He's bowed to their every whim.''

   Later, Pelosi said in an interview ``that it's painful for me to
have to be so critical of the administration's policy there.'' She
said she has not spoken to the president ``for about a year'' on
this issue.
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service Clients.)  
 By JUDY HOLLAND  
 c.1998 Hearst Newspapers  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Rep. Nancy Pelosi sharpened her attacks on
President Clinton's China policy Thursday, saying the president is
``either in denial or ill-informed about what's going on in
China.''

   The San Francisco Democrat said the Clinton administration
hasn't been aggressive enough in confronting China on three fronts:
nuclear proliferation, trade practices and human rights abuses.

   ``I think it's a flawed and failed policy,'' she said, referring
to the administration's approach. ``How much do we squander of our
leverage by following the Clinton path?''

   Pelosi, who has been harshly critical of the administration for
granting most-favored-nation trading status to China, told
reporters that the ``big business'' community, which wants to keep
trade channels open with China, has Clinton's ear and is driving
U.S. policy ``at the expense of promoting our values.''

   ``Our trade policy is controlled by exporting elites,'' who
``for their piece of the China market are willing to exploit
others,'' Pelosi said.

   Pelosi also said Clinton's planned trip to China June 24 is
``unfortunate,'' and questioned the timing of it.

   ``When a president goes on a trip of this high level he should
have achievable goals,'' Pelosi said. ``I have not seen a trip less
diplomatically prepared for in a long time.''

   The Clinton administration has defended the trip, saying it
needs to engage China on such issues as the financial crisis in
Indonesia and Thailand and the underground nuclear tests by India
and Pakistan.

   The trip is the first by a U.S. president since the 1989
Tiananmen Square crackdown where hundreds of protesters were
killed.

   Pelosi's comments follow a crescendo of attacks by congressional
Republicans on Clinton's China policy.

   More than 160 Republicans have signed a letter urging Clinton to
postpone the trip, spurred into action by an April disclosure that
Clinton had approved the export of American space technology to
China. Republican leaders say the export may have jeopardized U.S.
security by helping China develop its missile capabilities.

   Pelosi said ``there's no question the Chinese capability is
improved by our transfer of technology to them.''

   She handed out 1997 documents from the Office of Naval
Intelligence indicating China has exported technology and supplies
for weapons of mass destruction to Iran and Pakistan.

   She also complained that high Chinese tariffs limit access to
the Chinese market for U.S. products. The U.S. trade deficit with
China has soared from $3 billion in 1989 to $50 billion in 1997 and
is projected to reach more than $63 billion in 1998, according to
the U.S. Department of Commerce.

   Pelosi faulted the Chinese government for holding hundreds of
political prisoners without trial and continuing a ``brutal
repression'' of the religion, people and culture of Tibet.

   Pelosi said Clinton is wrong to talking about the
``post-Tiananmen Square era,'' adding ``We're not in the
post-Tiananmen era'' until political prisoners are freed and others
are able to speak freely.

   Despite China's record on nuclear proliferation, unfair trade
practices and human rights abuses, Clinton has ``catered to them in
every way,'' Pelosi said. ``He's bowed to their every whim.''

   Later, Pelosi said in an interview ``that it's painful for me to
have to be so critical of the administration's policy there.'' She
said she has not spoken to the president ``for about a year'' on
this issue.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0094 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 12:58 ',
			header: '
A4611 &Cx1f; ttj-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GLF-OPEN-HNS &LR;      06-11 0768
',
			slug: ' BC-GLF-OPEN-HNS ',
			headline: '
USGA EXPECTED TO ADDRESS TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENTS IN GAME 
',
			trailer: '
   SAN FRANCISCO _ Concerned that golfers are getting too much
thrust from high-tech equipment, the United States Golf Association
is expected next week to address how to handle technological
advancements in the game.

   The USGA apparently is concerned that, with the aid of
technologically refined clubs and balls, today's younger and
stronger players are shrinking golf courses across the land, thus
scarring the integrity of the game.

   The technical department of the USGA, led by John Matheny, the
senior director of equipment standards and test center operations,
has been looking at six areas of concern: balls, clubheads, putter
length, club length, loft limits and number of clubs in the bag.
That group sent out a release to manufacturers recently stating
that it would make recommendations to the USGA Executive Committee
this weekend in San Francisco, but it did not give any details.

   Already, USGA officials have expressed concern about golf balls
soaring far too far.

   ``I don't think the game of golf can live with golf clubs that
are providing springs for golf balls,'' Sandy Tatum, the former
USGA president and current member of the implement and balls
committee, told CBS Sportsline recently.

   And even as the technical staff has been preparing its
presentation, action has been taking place to try to defuse the
problem. For example, the USGA turned down a bid by Merion Golf
Club outside of Philadelphia _ host of the 1934, 1950, 1971 and
1981 Opens _ to hold a future event because the course isn't long
enough.

   And on Tuesday, the bigwigs at Augusta National, who swore only
last year they wouldn't change a thing to accommodate
longer-hitting players, announced plans to lengthen a few holes and
add some trees to counter the big hitters.

   The USGA has scheduled a news conference June 17, on the eve of
the 98th U.S. Open, to address the effects of technology.

   On the face of it, this seems like a fairly innocuous little
get-together, particularly against the backdrop of the game's
greatest players preparing to tee off in America's national
championship.

   The reality, though, is that the USGA's announcement about the
role of technology in the game stands to affect all players,
including luminaries such as Tiger Woods.

   The club manufacturers, which did $1.7 billion in wholesale
business last year, are waiting anxiously to see what the USGA has
to say. But they aren't just sitting on their laurels.

   The manufacturers insist that looking at equipment is far too
simplistic an approach and doesn't address the several other
factors _ such as stronger players, the condition of fairways, the
skills of the golfers _ that have contributed to the ball traveling
greater distances.

   In the past month, two major manufacturers took out full-page
ads in national publications in an effort to push public sentiment
in their direction.

   The issue is about far more than just professionals, because the
industry sells the same equipment to weekend hackers as it does to
the pros.

   ``We do not understand why the USGA would attempt to turn back
the clock,'' wrote John Solheim, chief executive of Karsten
Manufacturing Corp., which makes Ping clubs. ``But we do know that
if additional limits on innovation are implemented, the game of
golf will limp _ rather than stride _ into the 21st century. That,
we can all agree, would be devastating to golfers.''

   If the USGA does announce plans, for example, to ban the use of
certain clubs, the organization can expect to be looking at ``the
biggest legal battle in the history of sports,'' said Jesse Ortiz,
the president of Orlimar Golf Company. Ortiz's company doesn't make
clubs that stand to be part of any immediate ban, but he worries
about where the USGA will stop in its efforts to control the game.

   Donald Dye, the head of Callaway, whose client list includes
heavy hitter John Daly and whose clubs include the Big Bertha, the
Great Big Bertha and the Biggest Big Bertha, said merely the talk
of the USGA taking action has adversely affected his company. He
cited a drop in the stock price and in retail sales of clubs.

   ``We think we understand the golf business pretty well,'' Dye
said. ``Technical advances have done nothing but enhance the game
of golf and they're part of the tradition. Innovation and
technological advances have been at the core of golf since it
started.''
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients.)  
 By MARK FAINARU-WADA  
 c.1998 San Francisco Examiner  

',
			paragraphs: '
   SAN FRANCISCO _ Concerned that golfers are getting too much
thrust from high-tech equipment, the United States Golf Association
is expected next week to address how to handle technological
advancements in the game.

   The USGA apparently is concerned that, with the aid of
technologically refined clubs and balls, today's younger and
stronger players are shrinking golf courses across the land, thus
scarring the integrity of the game.

   The technical department of the USGA, led by John Matheny, the
senior director of equipment standards and test center operations,
has been looking at six areas of concern: balls, clubheads, putter
length, club length, loft limits and number of clubs in the bag.
That group sent out a release to manufacturers recently stating
that it would make recommendations to the USGA Executive Committee
this weekend in San Francisco, but it did not give any details.

   Already, USGA officials have expressed concern about golf balls
soaring far too far.

   ``I don't think the game of golf can live with golf clubs that
are providing springs for golf balls,'' Sandy Tatum, the former
USGA president and current member of the implement and balls
committee, told CBS Sportsline recently.

   And even as the technical staff has been preparing its
presentation, action has been taking place to try to defuse the
problem. For example, the USGA turned down a bid by Merion Golf
Club outside of Philadelphia _ host of the 1934, 1950, 1971 and
1981 Opens _ to hold a future event because the course isn't long
enough.

   And on Tuesday, the bigwigs at Augusta National, who swore only
last year they wouldn't change a thing to accommodate
longer-hitting players, announced plans to lengthen a few holes and
add some trees to counter the big hitters.

   The USGA has scheduled a news conference June 17, on the eve of
the 98th U.S. Open, to address the effects of technology.

   On the face of it, this seems like a fairly innocuous little
get-together, particularly against the backdrop of the game's
greatest players preparing to tee off in America's national
championship.

   The reality, though, is that the USGA's announcement about the
role of technology in the game stands to affect all players,
including luminaries such as Tiger Woods.

   The club manufacturers, which did $1.7 billion in wholesale
business last year, are waiting anxiously to see what the USGA has
to say. But they aren't just sitting on their laurels.

   The manufacturers insist that looking at equipment is far too
simplistic an approach and doesn't address the several other
factors _ such as stronger players, the condition of fairways, the
skills of the golfers _ that have contributed to the ball traveling
greater distances.

   In the past month, two major manufacturers took out full-page
ads in national publications in an effort to push public sentiment
in their direction.

   The issue is about far more than just professionals, because the
industry sells the same equipment to weekend hackers as it does to
the pros.

   ``We do not understand why the USGA would attempt to turn back
the clock,'' wrote John Solheim, chief executive of Karsten
Manufacturing Corp., which makes Ping clubs. ``But we do know that
if additional limits on innovation are implemented, the game of
golf will limp _ rather than stride _ into the 21st century. That,
we can all agree, would be devastating to golfers.''

   If the USGA does announce plans, for example, to ban the use of
certain clubs, the organization can expect to be looking at ``the
biggest legal battle in the history of sports,'' said Jesse Ortiz,
the president of Orlimar Golf Company. Ortiz's company doesn't make
clubs that stand to be part of any immediate ban, but he worries
about where the USGA will stop in its efforts to control the game.

   Donald Dye, the head of Callaway, whose client list includes
heavy hitter John Daly and whose clubs include the Big Bertha, the
Great Big Bertha and the Biggest Big Bertha, said merely the talk
of the USGA taking action has adversely affected his company. He
cited a drop in the stock price and in retail sales of clubs.

   ``We think we understand the golf business pretty well,'' Dye
said. ``Technical advances have done nothing but enhance the game
of golf and they're part of the tradition. Innovation and
technological advances have been at the core of golf since it
started.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0095 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:05 ',
			header: '
A4618 &Cx1f; ttj-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-AWNINGS-$ADV14-HNS &LR;      06-11 0475
',
			slug: ' BC-AWNINGS-$ADV14-HNS ',
			headline: '
TODAY'S HIGH-TECH AWNINGS PROVIDE SHADE, FADE HELP FOR ANY HOME 
',
			trailer: '
   ALBANY, N.Y. _ Awnings have been used as a source of shelter
from the elements since the 1600s, when they were used in bazaars
to protect perishables from the sweltering sun.

   By the mid-19th century, canvas awnings began replacing wooden
shutters on the homes of the well-to-do.

   Many of these exterior shades came in solids or crisp stripes,
which would be rolled back at night to let in cool breezes to
reduce the interior temperature.

   Some awnings would be lowered until they were flush, covering
the whole window, while the occupants were away at summer retreats,
just as they would have all of their fine furnishings covered with
white sheets to protect them from dust. Awnings also keep furniture
and carpeting from fading in the sunlight.

   A good canvas awning will last 20-plus years, depending on care,
sun damage and wind.

   In the age of high-tech, you no longer have to manually crank
the awning in and out for shade on demand. Today there are sensors
available that can be set to automatically extend the awning when
the sun is out and retract it when the clouds roll in, or when
there's a high wind of 25 to 35 mph.

   The variety of shapes and colors depends on the style of your
home. Awnings also can be custom-designed to enhance the
architectural character of your house.

   If window awnings don't appeal to you, consider a retractable
awning for just the patio, which can operate with the flick of an
inside switch. These begin at around $500 and keep patio furniture
from fading.

   Awnings also come in aluminum, which last three times longer
than canvas and are often covered by homeowner's insurance, because
of their durability. These can protect windows and doorways from
the elements and can be repainted when needed or when changing the
color of the house.

   New awnings don't mildew and fade as fast as their early
counterparts, and many are made from acrylics (which are more
translucent than cotton) and other synthetics. Regular cleaning
will help retard the growth of mildew.

   Most come with a fabric warranty for up to three years for
canvas, five years for acrylics, and aluminum can last indefinitely
unless wind or hailstones damage them.

   Good-quality aluminum awnings cost about $275 per 36-inch-wide
window, and quality cloth awnings cost approximately $150 to $175
for the same size window.

   Because of new solution-dyed acrylics, making them stronger and
less prone to the elements, awnings are being revived as an
energy-efficient measure. They can lower air-conditioning costs by
reducing the temperature of a house by several degrees.
',
			body: '


  
 (For release Sunday, June 14)   (For use by New York Times News Service clients.)  
 By FRANCES INGRAHAM  
 c.1998 Albany Times Union  

',
			paragraphs: '
   ALBANY, N.Y. _ Awnings have been used as a source of shelter
from the elements since the 1600s, when they were used in bazaars
to protect perishables from the sweltering sun.

   By the mid-19th century, canvas awnings began replacing wooden
shutters on the homes of the well-to-do.

   Many of these exterior shades came in solids or crisp stripes,
which would be rolled back at night to let in cool breezes to
reduce the interior temperature.

   Some awnings would be lowered until they were flush, covering
the whole window, while the occupants were away at summer retreats,
just as they would have all of their fine furnishings covered with
white sheets to protect them from dust. Awnings also keep furniture
and carpeting from fading in the sunlight.

   A good canvas awning will last 20-plus years, depending on care,
sun damage and wind.

   In the age of high-tech, you no longer have to manually crank
the awning in and out for shade on demand. Today there are sensors
available that can be set to automatically extend the awning when
the sun is out and retract it when the clouds roll in, or when
there's a high wind of 25 to 35 mph.

   The variety of shapes and colors depends on the style of your
home. Awnings also can be custom-designed to enhance the
architectural character of your house.

   If window awnings don't appeal to you, consider a retractable
awning for just the patio, which can operate with the flick of an
inside switch. These begin at around $500 and keep patio furniture
from fading.

   Awnings also come in aluminum, which last three times longer
than canvas and are often covered by homeowner's insurance, because
of their durability. These can protect windows and doorways from
the elements and can be repainted when needed or when changing the
color of the house.

   New awnings don't mildew and fade as fast as their early
counterparts, and many are made from acrylics (which are more
translucent than cotton) and other synthetics. Regular cleaning
will help retard the growth of mildew.

   Most come with a fabric warranty for up to three years for
canvas, five years for acrylics, and aluminum can last indefinitely
unless wind or hailstones damage them.

   Good-quality aluminum awnings cost about $275 per 36-inch-wide
window, and quality cloth awnings cost approximately $150 to $175
for the same size window.

   Because of new solution-dyed acrylics, making them stronger and
less prone to the elements, awnings are being revived as an
energy-efficient measure. They can lower air-conditioning costs by
reducing the temperature of a house by several degrees.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0096 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:25 ',
			header: '
A4633 &Cx1f; tad-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CLINTON-RACE-COX &UR; $ADV CLIN   06-11 1189
',
			slug: ' BC-CLINTON-RACE-COX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Throughout his presidency, Bill Clinton has been at
his eloquent best when talking about race in America. But in the
year since he asked Americans to begin talking about the bitter
legacy of racism and the country's multicultural future, his voice
has been largely silent.

   In its absence, the argument over affirmative action has grown
harsher and more divisive, even as opponents of such programs,
which are designed to overcome racial, gender and ethnic
discrimination, have lost one political fight after another.

   Even so, the yearlong work of the president and the eight-member
advisory board he appointed to advise him on race has spurred
Americans to talk, often with new earnestness, about issues they
would prefer to ignore, experts and activists said.

   ``Race is not something people are comfortable talking about,''
said Sandy Schwartz, executive director of the Northern Ohio
chapter of the National Conference for Community and Justice, the
70-year-old organization formerly known as the National Conference
of Christians and Jews.

   But in Cleveland, where Schwartz's organization conducts
hundreds of ``Honest Conversations'' workshops each year, the
president's efforts have sparked a new willingness to talk and to
listen across racial, ethnic and religious lines.

   ``There's not always a lot of agreement,'' Schwartz said. ``But
it's bringing people together to talk. And when you bring people
together, no matter how short a time or how superficial it seems,
it does some good.''

   However, Ward Connerly, who led the campaign that ended
affirmative action programs in his home state of California, said
the president's race initiative was never structured properly.

   ``It has never gotten down to the level of the people on the
streets,'' Connerly complained.

   Even the president's own advisers acknowledged last week that
the national dialogue on race has not yet become the frank exchange
that some people expected when Clinton launched it with a speech in
San Diego last June 14.

   ``There are very few people who are willing to put themselves
out, particularly white people, in terms of concerns about being
called racist if you ask the wrong questions,'' said Judith
Winston, the executive director of Clinton's race advisory panel.

   Still, the panel's work has drawn public attention to 150 local
programs throughout the country that are working to bring people
together _ ``promising practices,'' the White House calls them.

   And Clinton should get credit for trying to get Americans to
``face up to some rather harsh realities,'' said Richard K. Sher, a
professor and civil rights expert at the University of Florida.
``No other president has tried to do it.''

   Some critics have suggested that Clinton's race initiative would
have been more successful if the president himself had played a
larger role instead of leaving most of the work to the advisory
panel.

   The president's advisory board held eight public meetings in
five states, but the president himself held only two town meetings
_ in Akron, Ohio, last December, and in Houston last April.

   ``He has not been as actively involved as I would have expected
him to be,'' said Paula McCain, a professor of government at the
University of Virginia.

   But a more central role by the president might have
``compromised the purpose of the initiative _ to get the public to
talk to each other,'' said Stephanie Larson, a professor at Emily
Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa. ``The initiative is not simply a
presidential publicity stunt.''

   Much of what the board has done, however, has been overshadowed
by the debate over whether affirmative action programs, initially
structured in the 1960s and 1970s to overcome the effects of past
discrimination, should be abolished in favor of ``color-blind''
public policies.

   ``To some degree, it has degenerated into a debate forum on
affirmative action,'' said Larry Mamiya, director of the African
Studies Program at Vassar College.

   And that has been to the advantage of Connerly and his allies,
who otherwise have had little success in ending affirmative action
beyond the borders of California.

   Twenty states have tried to place anti-affirmative action
referenda on their ballots, and all but two have failed. And on
three occasions this year, votes in Congress to end affirmative
action have failed.

   ``Despite popular thinking to the contrary, the battle to
preserve affirmative action is being won, not lost,'' said Julian
Bond, chairman of the board of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People.

   The president's race initiative has also given friends as well
as foes an opportunity to criticize his record on civil rights. The
initiative was only months old when Urban League President Hugh B.
Price called for ``more action and less talk.''

   ``Because of the (conservative) political climate of the country
and his unwillingness to risk political capital fighting that
climate, Clinton has never taken an aggressive stance on racial
issues, from the nomination of Lani Guinier to welfare reform,''
said Jeremy Mayer, a political scientist at Kalamazoo College in
Michigan.

   In the year since his race initiative began, however, Clinton
has taken a number of aggressive policy and political actions:

   _ A new budget that contains $602 million for civil rights
agencies and offices, an increase of $86 million over the previous
budget.

   _ An unprecedented effort at the Department of Housing and Urban
Development to crack down on housing discrimination.

   _ A broadening of federal hate crimes laws.

   _ A seven-year program to modernize schools in urban areas and
to provide enough qualified teachers to reduce the size of classes
in the early grades.

   Still, the president's race initiative has focused public
attention more on diversity _ the racial and ethnic differences of
Americans _ than on what they share, said Tamar Jacoby, author of
``Someone Else's House,'' a new book about America's unfinished
struggle for integration.

   ``Have we Americans really given up on a common humanity?''
Jacoby said. ``I don't think so. And I don't think the president
thinks so. But he talks about diversity and identity politics
instead of the old-fashioned notion of integration.''

   As the president's race board prepares its report to Clinton _
it is due in September _ Jacoby suggests that the president revisit
the notion of integration before proceeding further with policy
recommendations.

   ``We can do better than just peaceful coexistence,'' she said.
``Despite their anger and alienation, most minorities still want in
_ and most whites still want to do what they can to make this the
land of opportunity they have been taught to believe it is. And
that, I think, is where the president really wants to take us.''

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
',
			body: '

   $ADV13  IN NATIONAL CONVERSATION ON RACE,
CLINTON'S VOICE RARELY HEARD
 &HT;     For release Saturday, June 13.
 &HT;     By SCOTT SHEPARD 
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Throughout his presidency, Bill Clinton has been at
his eloquent best when talking about race in America. But in the
year since he asked Americans to begin talking about the bitter
legacy of racism and the country's multicultural future, his voice
has been largely silent.

   In its absence, the argument over affirmative action has grown
harsher and more divisive, even as opponents of such programs,
which are designed to overcome racial, gender and ethnic
discrimination, have lost one political fight after another.

   Even so, the yearlong work of the president and the eight-member
advisory board he appointed to advise him on race has spurred
Americans to talk, often with new earnestness, about issues they
would prefer to ignore, experts and activists said.

   ``Race is not something people are comfortable talking about,''
said Sandy Schwartz, executive director of the Northern Ohio
chapter of the National Conference for Community and Justice, the
70-year-old organization formerly known as the National Conference
of Christians and Jews.

   But in Cleveland, where Schwartz's organization conducts
hundreds of ``Honest Conversations'' workshops each year, the
president's efforts have sparked a new willingness to talk and to
listen across racial, ethnic and religious lines.

   ``There's not always a lot of agreement,'' Schwartz said. ``But
it's bringing people together to talk. And when you bring people
together, no matter how short a time or how superficial it seems,
it does some good.''

   However, Ward Connerly, who led the campaign that ended
affirmative action programs in his home state of California, said
the president's race initiative was never structured properly.

   ``It has never gotten down to the level of the people on the
streets,'' Connerly complained.

   Even the president's own advisers acknowledged last week that
the national dialogue on race has not yet become the frank exchange
that some people expected when Clinton launched it with a speech in
San Diego last June 14.

   ``There are very few people who are willing to put themselves
out, particularly white people, in terms of concerns about being
called racist if you ask the wrong questions,'' said Judith
Winston, the executive director of Clinton's race advisory panel.

   Still, the panel's work has drawn public attention to 150 local
programs throughout the country that are working to bring people
together _ ``promising practices,'' the White House calls them.

   And Clinton should get credit for trying to get Americans to
``face up to some rather harsh realities,'' said Richard K. Sher, a
professor and civil rights expert at the University of Florida.
``No other president has tried to do it.''

   Some critics have suggested that Clinton's race initiative would
have been more successful if the president himself had played a
larger role instead of leaving most of the work to the advisory
panel.

   The president's advisory board held eight public meetings in
five states, but the president himself held only two town meetings
_ in Akron, Ohio, last December, and in Houston last April.

   ``He has not been as actively involved as I would have expected
him to be,'' said Paula McCain, a professor of government at the
University of Virginia.

   But a more central role by the president might have
``compromised the purpose of the initiative _ to get the public to
talk to each other,'' said Stephanie Larson, a professor at Emily
Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa. ``The initiative is not simply a
presidential publicity stunt.''

   Much of what the board has done, however, has been overshadowed
by the debate over whether affirmative action programs, initially
structured in the 1960s and 1970s to overcome the effects of past
discrimination, should be abolished in favor of ``color-blind''
public policies.

   ``To some degree, it has degenerated into a debate forum on
affirmative action,'' said Larry Mamiya, director of the African
Studies Program at Vassar College.

   And that has been to the advantage of Connerly and his allies,
who otherwise have had little success in ending affirmative action
beyond the borders of California.

   Twenty states have tried to place anti-affirmative action
referenda on their ballots, and all but two have failed. And on
three occasions this year, votes in Congress to end affirmative
action have failed.

   ``Despite popular thinking to the contrary, the battle to
preserve affirmative action is being won, not lost,'' said Julian
Bond, chairman of the board of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People.

   The president's race initiative has also given friends as well
as foes an opportunity to criticize his record on civil rights. The
initiative was only months old when Urban League President Hugh B.
Price called for ``more action and less talk.''

   ``Because of the (conservative) political climate of the country
and his unwillingness to risk political capital fighting that
climate, Clinton has never taken an aggressive stance on racial
issues, from the nomination of Lani Guinier to welfare reform,''
said Jeremy Mayer, a political scientist at Kalamazoo College in
Michigan.

   In the year since his race initiative began, however, Clinton
has taken a number of aggressive policy and political actions:

   _ A new budget that contains $602 million for civil rights
agencies and offices, an increase of $86 million over the previous
budget.

   _ An unprecedented effort at the Department of Housing and Urban
Development to crack down on housing discrimination.

   _ A broadening of federal hate crimes laws.

   _ A seven-year program to modernize schools in urban areas and
to provide enough qualified teachers to reduce the size of classes
in the early grades.

   Still, the president's race initiative has focused public
attention more on diversity _ the racial and ethnic differences of
Americans _ than on what they share, said Tamar Jacoby, author of
``Someone Else's House,'' a new book about America's unfinished
struggle for integration.

   ``Have we Americans really given up on a common humanity?''
Jacoby said. ``I don't think so. And I don't think the president
thinks so. But he talks about diversity and identity politics
instead of the old-fashioned notion of integration.''

   As the president's race board prepares its report to Clinton _
it is due in September _ Jacoby suggests that the president revisit
the notion of integration before proceeding further with policy
recommendations.

   ``We can do better than just peaceful coexistence,'' she said.
``Despite their anger and alienation, most minorities still want in
_ and most whites still want to do what they can to make this the
land of opportunity they have been taught to believe it is. And
that, I think, is where the president really wants to take us.''

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0097 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:29 ',
			header: '
A4642 &Cx1f; tth-z
r v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BUDGET-FEATURE-SPI &LR;      06-11 0278
',
			slug: ' BC-BUDGET-FEATURE-SPI ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   The Seattle Post-Intelligencer plans to move the following
stories for clients of the NYTimes News Service for editions of
Friday, June 12, and thereafter. If you have any questions, please
call Tina May at (206) 448-8355.

   FILM-SIXDAYS (Undated) OK, so it's not Shakespeare. It's not
even ``The African Queen.'' It's neither original and layered like
``The Truman Show'' nor audacious and thought-provoking like
``Bulworth.'' Even so, ``Six Days, Seven Nights'' makes a most
welcome addition to what is shaping up to be Hollywood's best
comedy summer in years.

   By William Arnold. (story will move in the ``e'' category)

   FILM-MOON (Undated) If you're a Broadway buff or just a fan of
backstage drama, you'll have a terrific time with ``Moon Over
Broadway,'' the new feature documentary by veteran documentarian
D.A. Pennebaker (``Don't Look Back,'' ``Monterey Pop,'' ``The War
Room'').

   By William Arnold. (story will move in the ``e'' category)

   FILM-CONDOM (Undated) ``Killer Condom'' is fresh and frisky.

   By Paula Nechak. (story will move in the ``e'' category)

   FILM-WAIT (Undated) There have been several good films that
comically explored the angst of high school and the teenage years.
``Say Anything'' and ``Fast Times at Ridgemont High'' are just a
couple that gave us real _ if goofy _ insight into the memorable
experiences of high school, graduation and the anguish and despair
of fitting in _ or not. ``Can't Hardly Wait'' compares itself to
those classic teen movies but sadly it's not quite as smart or
entertaining.

   By Paula Nechak. (story will move in the ``e'' category)
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   The Seattle Post-Intelligencer plans to move the following
stories for clients of the NYTimes News Service for editions of
Friday, June 12, and thereafter. If you have any questions, please
call Tina May at (206) 448-8355.

   FILM-SIXDAYS (Undated) OK, so it's not Shakespeare. It's not
even ``The African Queen.'' It's neither original and layered like
``The Truman Show'' nor audacious and thought-provoking like
``Bulworth.'' Even so, ``Six Days, Seven Nights'' makes a most
welcome addition to what is shaping up to be Hollywood's best
comedy summer in years.

   By William Arnold. (story will move in the ``e'' category)

   FILM-MOON (Undated) If you're a Broadway buff or just a fan of
backstage drama, you'll have a terrific time with ``Moon Over
Broadway,'' the new feature documentary by veteran documentarian
D.A. Pennebaker (``Don't Look Back,'' ``Monterey Pop,'' ``The War
Room'').

   By William Arnold. (story will move in the ``e'' category)

   FILM-CONDOM (Undated) ``Killer Condom'' is fresh and frisky.

   By Paula Nechak. (story will move in the ``e'' category)

   FILM-WAIT (Undated) There have been several good films that
comically explored the angst of high school and the teenage years.
``Say Anything'' and ``Fast Times at Ridgemont High'' are just a
couple that gave us real _ if goofy _ insight into the memorable
experiences of high school, graduation and the anguish and despair
of fitting in _ or not. ``Can't Hardly Wait'' compares itself to
those classic teen movies but sadly it's not quite as smart or
entertaining.

   By Paula Nechak. (story will move in the ``e'' category)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0098 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:31 ',
			header: '
A4644 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-LADN- &LR; OUTDOORS-LADN     06-11 0791
',
			slug: ' BC-LADN- ',
			headline: '
HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE TO VIETNAM
',
			trailer: '
   Karin Muller, however, has put together a fascinating account of
her seven months crisscrossing Vietnam.

   But the title of her 312-page book, ``Hitchhiking Vietnam: A
Woman's Solo Journey in an Elusive Land'' (Globe Pequot; $24.95) is
a bit of a misnomer. Muller, who became a sort of professional
traveler after a Peace Corps stint in the Philippines, traversed
Vietnam four times by motorbike, bicycle, train, boat and foot, in
addition to hitchhiking. (Her experiences will be the subject of a
PBS special.)

   The book reflects its Third World setting; it is in no hurry to
get anywhere and often goes around in circles. Vietnam is a place
where things just don't work the way one might be accustomed;
visitors often can't get from Point A to Point B without going to
Point C and Point D.

   The Switzerland native who grew up in the U.S. has done a good
job describing some strange and hilarious cross-cultural encounters
and weaves the accompanying anecdotes well. She describes her
maddening experiences with early guides who were determined to
fleece her for as much as she was worth. She takes us to a
Kafkaesque world where the bureaucracy makes little sense but to
which she quickly adapts: ``Always bribe the first man who asks for
your papers.'' And she praises the locals for having a gift for
survival and bearing no grudge against her despite the war.

   Also engaging is her attempt to explain to Hmong tribesmen a
photo essay in Life magazine about a poor American family, though
the U.S. family had more material possessions than the Hmongs.

   Some of her experiences may seem familiar to anyone who has
either spent serious time in a Third World nation or been in the
outdoors for weeks on end. She took ill (scurvy and a stake
impalement, for example) from exposure to the elements, poor
shelter, wretched health care and native food (including weeds and
bugs).

   While enlightening elements, they could have been taken farther
toward relating to a coherent whole _ for example, it was never
quite clear why Muller chose Vietnam in the first place.

   She mentions something about a challenge from a Vietnam War
veteran. And the book could have used more context _ a sense of
history, or of anything besides a straight travel narrative. Our
rating: (three and a half stars)

   Despite many outdoors guidebooks on the market, titles that
chronicle accommodations in National Parks seem to have fallen
through the cracks.

   A bare-bones approach to filling the gap seems inadequate in
``The Complete Guide to the National Park Lodges'' (Globe Pequot,
$16.95).

   Two things mar this 240-page work by David L. Scott and Kay W.
Scott: A lack of photos (it has sketches instead) and rate
information that is far too vague. The authors do not approximate
costs but using $$$$ for expensive and $$ for moderate. That's not
good enough.

   Photos would have given this book some color, which it sorely
lacks. Many of the edifices are masterpieces of architecture _
invaluable landmarks with spectacular views. Without pictures,
descriptions are meaningless.

   In its favor is that lodges outside the parks' boundaries are
listed. Still, the reader would have been better served with the
title ``The Incomplete Guide to the National Park Lodges.'' Our
rating: (one and a half stars)

   Yet another camping guide? Yes, and ``Making Camp: A Complete
Guide for Hikers, Mountain Bikers, Paddlers &AMP; Skiers'' (The
Mountaineers; $16.95) proves there is a real niche for well-written
books on well-worn topics.

   The secret in such a case, as evidenced in the 224 pages by
Steve Howe, Alan Kesselheim, Dennis Coello and John Harlin, is to
keep the copy relatively simple and take a common-sense approach.
It is smartly structured, with general overviews of backpacking and
more specialized chapters on canoeing and kayak travel, bicycling
and winter trips. Experts are tapped for comments for each area.

   The quartet of authors steers clear of seeking camping
perfection: ``Don't be afraid to make mistakes; just make them
manageable and be ready to solve them on your own.'' The book
concedes that, for example, most people will either pack too much
or too little.

   Numerous helpful tips include the use of a food dehydrator,
variety in diet and avoiding cotton clothing. And they are all tied
together by strong writing that is as easy to read as a clear map.
Our rating: (three stars) &QL;
',
			body: '


 OUTDOORS-LADN (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By RICH MARTIN 
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News 
  
 
 
Uganda, Upper Volta and Iran might seem more appealing destinations
for a vacation or backpacking trip than Vietnam for many Americans.

',
			paragraphs: '
   Karin Muller, however, has put together a fascinating account of
her seven months crisscrossing Vietnam.

   But the title of her 312-page book, ``Hitchhiking Vietnam: A
Woman's Solo Journey in an Elusive Land'' (Globe Pequot; $24.95) is
a bit of a misnomer. Muller, who became a sort of professional
traveler after a Peace Corps stint in the Philippines, traversed
Vietnam four times by motorbike, bicycle, train, boat and foot, in
addition to hitchhiking. (Her experiences will be the subject of a
PBS special.)

   The book reflects its Third World setting; it is in no hurry to
get anywhere and often goes around in circles. Vietnam is a place
where things just don't work the way one might be accustomed;
visitors often can't get from Point A to Point B without going to
Point C and Point D.

   The Switzerland native who grew up in the U.S. has done a good
job describing some strange and hilarious cross-cultural encounters
and weaves the accompanying anecdotes well. She describes her
maddening experiences with early guides who were determined to
fleece her for as much as she was worth. She takes us to a
Kafkaesque world where the bureaucracy makes little sense but to
which she quickly adapts: ``Always bribe the first man who asks for
your papers.'' And she praises the locals for having a gift for
survival and bearing no grudge against her despite the war.

   Also engaging is her attempt to explain to Hmong tribesmen a
photo essay in Life magazine about a poor American family, though
the U.S. family had more material possessions than the Hmongs.

   Some of her experiences may seem familiar to anyone who has
either spent serious time in a Third World nation or been in the
outdoors for weeks on end. She took ill (scurvy and a stake
impalement, for example) from exposure to the elements, poor
shelter, wretched health care and native food (including weeds and
bugs).

   While enlightening elements, they could have been taken farther
toward relating to a coherent whole _ for example, it was never
quite clear why Muller chose Vietnam in the first place.

   She mentions something about a challenge from a Vietnam War
veteran. And the book could have used more context _ a sense of
history, or of anything besides a straight travel narrative. Our
rating: (three and a half stars)

   Despite many outdoors guidebooks on the market, titles that
chronicle accommodations in National Parks seem to have fallen
through the cracks.

   A bare-bones approach to filling the gap seems inadequate in
``The Complete Guide to the National Park Lodges'' (Globe Pequot,
$16.95).

   Two things mar this 240-page work by David L. Scott and Kay W.
Scott: A lack of photos (it has sketches instead) and rate
information that is far too vague. The authors do not approximate
costs but using $$$$ for expensive and $$ for moderate. That's not
good enough.

   Photos would have given this book some color, which it sorely
lacks. Many of the edifices are masterpieces of architecture _
invaluable landmarks with spectacular views. Without pictures,
descriptions are meaningless.

   In its favor is that lodges outside the parks' boundaries are
listed. Still, the reader would have been better served with the
title ``The Incomplete Guide to the National Park Lodges.'' Our
rating: (one and a half stars)

   Yet another camping guide? Yes, and ``Making Camp: A Complete
Guide for Hikers, Mountain Bikers, Paddlers &AMP; Skiers'' (The
Mountaineers; $16.95) proves there is a real niche for well-written
books on well-worn topics.

   The secret in such a case, as evidenced in the 224 pages by
Steve Howe, Alan Kesselheim, Dennis Coello and John Harlin, is to
keep the copy relatively simple and take a common-sense approach.
It is smartly structured, with general overviews of backpacking and
more specialized chapters on canoeing and kayak travel, bicycling
and winter trips. Experts are tapped for comments for each area.

   The quartet of authors steers clear of seeking camping
perfection: ``Don't be afraid to make mistakes; just make them
manageable and be ready to solve them on your own.'' The book
concedes that, for example, most people will either pack too much
or too little.

   Numerous helpful tips include the use of a food dehydrator,
variety in diet and avoiding cotton clothing. And they are all tied
together by strong writing that is as easy to read as a clear map.
Our rating: (three stars) &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0099 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:49 ',
			header: '
A4661 &Cx1f; tab-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-AROUND-THE-WORLD-ADVI     06-11 0500
',
			slug: ' BC-AROUND-THE-WORLD-ADVISORY-NYTSF ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Brighten up your travel pages by purchasing one -- or all! -- of
the following features, which have been culled from The New York
Times Syndicate's ``WAY TO GO!'' travel package.

   (FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION, SEE BELOW!)

   .............ALL THE ART IS FREE!..............

   &UR; WHAT'S DOING IN BARCELONA &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; TWO COLOR SLIDES &QL; 
 &UR; (1,400 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By STEVEN GREENHOUSE &QL;

   Barcelona is a walker's paradise, especially this time of year.
To saunter through its Gothic Quarter, along the dark, narrow
streets and past the ancient artisans' shops, is to be transported
back to the Middle Ages. Walk up Passeig de Gracia, past the chic
boutiques and the daring, whimsical buildings by Antonio Gaudi,
Barcelona's favorite architectural son, and it is easy to
appreciate why this city is known as Spain's capital of design.
Steven Greenhouse, a reporter for The New York Times, reports on
where to go, what to see, where to eat ...

   (slugged: BC-BARCELONA'S-BEAUTY-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category codes t
and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; HAWAII FOR HALF PRICE _ AND MORE! &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (1,100 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By GENE AND ADELE MALOTT &QL;

   Spectacular discounts on tours to Europe for couples celebrating
their silver, ruby, gold or diamond anniversaries ... sizzling
summer bargains for ``swingers on the green'' ... savings on
safaris to Kenya ... they're all explained in this roundup of
travel discounts for the senior set, as reported by Gene and Adele
Malott, publishers of THE MATURE TRAVELER: Travel Bonanzas for
49ers-Plus, a newsletter for mature travelers.

   (slugged: BC-SPECIALS-FOR-SENIOR-SET-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; FINE WINE TOURS &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (900 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By EVERETT POTTER &QL;

   It's a love affair that may have started in a Paris bistro or a
cafe in Tuscany _ the love affair, that is, between an American
traveler and European wines, writes New York-based free-lance
writer Everett Potter. For those enamored of the grape, there are
wine tours that show off the best of Europe's vineyards and
wineries. Potter offers a taste in this feature.

   (slugged: BC-CALLING-ALL-FINE-WINE-FANS-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION ... contact one of these New York Times
Syndicate sales representatives:

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. &LR;

   (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.

   Many Thanks!

   The New York Times Syndicate

   &UR; (New York headquarters: 212-499-3300 or 1-800-972-3550; fax,
212-499-3382.) &LR;
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   Brighten up your travel pages by purchasing one -- or all! -- of
the following features, which have been culled from The New York
Times Syndicate's ``WAY TO GO!'' travel package.

   (FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION, SEE BELOW!)

   .............ALL THE ART IS FREE!..............

   &UR; WHAT'S DOING IN BARCELONA &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; TWO COLOR SLIDES &QL; 
 &UR; (1,400 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By STEVEN GREENHOUSE &QL;

   Barcelona is a walker's paradise, especially this time of year.
To saunter through its Gothic Quarter, along the dark, narrow
streets and past the ancient artisans' shops, is to be transported
back to the Middle Ages. Walk up Passeig de Gracia, past the chic
boutiques and the daring, whimsical buildings by Antonio Gaudi,
Barcelona's favorite architectural son, and it is easy to
appreciate why this city is known as Spain's capital of design.
Steven Greenhouse, a reporter for The New York Times, reports on
where to go, what to see, where to eat ...

   (slugged: BC-BARCELONA'S-BEAUTY-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category codes t
and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; HAWAII FOR HALF PRICE _ AND MORE! &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (1,100 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By GENE AND ADELE MALOTT &QL;

   Spectacular discounts on tours to Europe for couples celebrating
their silver, ruby, gold or diamond anniversaries ... sizzling
summer bargains for ``swingers on the green'' ... savings on
safaris to Kenya ... they're all explained in this roundup of
travel discounts for the senior set, as reported by Gene and Adele
Malott, publishers of THE MATURE TRAVELER: Travel Bonanzas for
49ers-Plus, a newsletter for mature travelers.

   (slugged: BC-SPECIALS-FOR-SENIOR-SET-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; FINE WINE TOURS &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (900 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By EVERETT POTTER &QL;

   It's a love affair that may have started in a Paris bistro or a
cafe in Tuscany _ the love affair, that is, between an American
traveler and European wines, writes New York-based free-lance
writer Everett Potter. For those enamored of the grape, there are
wine tours that show off the best of Europe's vineyards and
wineries. Potter offers a taste in this feature.

   (slugged: BC-CALLING-ALL-FINE-WINE-FANS-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION ... contact one of these New York Times
Syndicate sales representatives:

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. &LR;

   (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.

   Many Thanks!

   The New York Times Syndicate

   &UR; (New York headquarters: 212-499-3300 or 1-800-972-3550; fax,
212-499-3382.) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0100 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:49 ',
			header: '
A4662 &Cx1f; tab-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-AROUND-THE-WORLD-ADVI     06-11 0500
',
			slug: ' BC-AROUND-THE-WORLD-ADVISORY-NYTSF ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Brighten up your travel pages by purchasing one -- or all! -- of
the following features, which have been culled from The New York
Times Syndicate's ``WAY TO GO!'' travel package.

   (FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION, SEE BELOW!)

   .............ALL THE ART IS FREE!..............

   &UR; WHAT'S DOING IN BARCELONA &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; TWO COLOR SLIDES &QL; 
 &UR; (1,400 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By STEVEN GREENHOUSE &QL;

   Barcelona is a walker's paradise, especially this time of year.
To saunter through its Gothic Quarter, along the dark, narrow
streets and past the ancient artisans' shops, is to be transported
back to the Middle Ages. Walk up Passeig de Gracia, past the chic
boutiques and the daring, whimsical buildings by Antonio Gaudi,
Barcelona's favorite architectural son, and it is easy to
appreciate why this city is known as Spain's capital of design.
Steven Greenhouse, a reporter for The New York Times, reports on
where to go, what to see, where to eat ...

   (slugged: BC-BARCELONA'S-BEAUTY-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category codes t
and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; HAWAII FOR HALF PRICE _ AND MORE! &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (1,100 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By GENE AND ADELE MALOTT &QL;

   Spectacular discounts on tours to Europe for couples celebrating
their silver, ruby, gold or diamond anniversaries ... sizzling
summer bargains for ``swingers on the green'' ... savings on
safaris to Kenya ... they're all explained in this roundup of
travel discounts for the senior set, as reported by Gene and Adele
Malott, publishers of THE MATURE TRAVELER: Travel Bonanzas for
49ers-Plus, a newsletter for mature travelers.

   (slugged: BC-SPECIALS-FOR-SENIOR-SET-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; FINE WINE TOURS &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (900 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By EVERETT POTTER &QL;

   It's a love affair that may have started in a Paris bistro or a
cafe in Tuscany _ the love affair, that is, between an American
traveler and European wines, writes New York-based free-lance
writer Everett Potter. For those enamored of the grape, there are
wine tours that show off the best of Europe's vineyards and
wineries. Potter offers a taste in this feature.

   (slugged: BC-CALLING-ALL-FINE-WINE-FANS-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION ... contact one of these New York Times
Syndicate sales representatives:

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. &LR;

   (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.

   Many Thanks!

   The New York Times Syndicate

   &UR; (New York headquarters: 212-499-3300 or 1-800-972-3550; fax,
212-499-3382.) &LR;
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   Brighten up your travel pages by purchasing one -- or all! -- of
the following features, which have been culled from The New York
Times Syndicate's ``WAY TO GO!'' travel package.

   (FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION, SEE BELOW!)

   .............ALL THE ART IS FREE!..............

   &UR; WHAT'S DOING IN BARCELONA &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; TWO COLOR SLIDES &QL; 
 &UR; (1,400 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By STEVEN GREENHOUSE &QL;

   Barcelona is a walker's paradise, especially this time of year.
To saunter through its Gothic Quarter, along the dark, narrow
streets and past the ancient artisans' shops, is to be transported
back to the Middle Ages. Walk up Passeig de Gracia, past the chic
boutiques and the daring, whimsical buildings by Antonio Gaudi,
Barcelona's favorite architectural son, and it is easy to
appreciate why this city is known as Spain's capital of design.
Steven Greenhouse, a reporter for The New York Times, reports on
where to go, what to see, where to eat ...

   (slugged: BC-BARCELONA'S-BEAUTY-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category codes t
and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; HAWAII FOR HALF PRICE _ AND MORE! &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (1,100 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By GENE AND ADELE MALOTT &QL;

   Spectacular discounts on tours to Europe for couples celebrating
their silver, ruby, gold or diamond anniversaries ... sizzling
summer bargains for ``swingers on the green'' ... savings on
safaris to Kenya ... they're all explained in this roundup of
travel discounts for the senior set, as reported by Gene and Adele
Malott, publishers of THE MATURE TRAVELER: Travel Bonanzas for
49ers-Plus, a newsletter for mature travelers.

   (slugged: BC-SPECIALS-FOR-SENIOR-SET-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; FINE WINE TOURS &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (900 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By EVERETT POTTER &QL;

   It's a love affair that may have started in a Paris bistro or a
cafe in Tuscany _ the love affair, that is, between an American
traveler and European wines, writes New York-based free-lance
writer Everett Potter. For those enamored of the grape, there are
wine tours that show off the best of Europe's vineyards and
wineries. Potter offers a taste in this feature.

   (slugged: BC-CALLING-ALL-FINE-WINE-FANS-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION ... contact one of these New York Times
Syndicate sales representatives:

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. &LR;

   (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.

   Many Thanks!

   The New York Times Syndicate

   &UR; (New York headquarters: 212-499-3300 or 1-800-972-3550; fax,
212-499-3382.) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0101 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:49 ',
			header: '
A4663 &Cx1f; tab-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-AROUND-THE-WORLD-ADVI     06-11 0500
',
			slug: ' BC-AROUND-THE-WORLD-ADVISORY-NYTSF ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Brighten up your travel pages by purchasing one -- or all! -- of
the following features, which have been culled from The New York
Times Syndicate's ``WAY TO GO!'' travel package.

   (FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION, SEE BELOW!)

   .............ALL THE ART IS FREE!..............

   &UR; WHAT'S DOING IN BARCELONA &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; TWO COLOR SLIDES &QL; 
 &UR; (1,400 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By STEVEN GREENHOUSE &QL;

   Barcelona is a walker's paradise, especially this time of year.
To saunter through its Gothic Quarter, along the dark, narrow
streets and past the ancient artisans' shops, is to be transported
back to the Middle Ages. Walk up Passeig de Gracia, past the chic
boutiques and the daring, whimsical buildings by Antonio Gaudi,
Barcelona's favorite architectural son, and it is easy to
appreciate why this city is known as Spain's capital of design.
Steven Greenhouse, a reporter for The New York Times, reports on
where to go, what to see, where to eat ...

   (slugged: BC-BARCELONA'S-BEAUTY-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category codes t
and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; HAWAII FOR HALF PRICE _ AND MORE! &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (1,100 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By GENE AND ADELE MALOTT &QL;

   Spectacular discounts on tours to Europe for couples celebrating
their silver, ruby, gold or diamond anniversaries ... sizzling
summer bargains for ``swingers on the green'' ... savings on
safaris to Kenya ... they're all explained in this roundup of
travel discounts for the senior set, as reported by Gene and Adele
Malott, publishers of THE MATURE TRAVELER: Travel Bonanzas for
49ers-Plus, a newsletter for mature travelers.

   (slugged: BC-SPECIALS-FOR-SENIOR-SET-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; FINE WINE TOURS &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (900 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By EVERETT POTTER &QL;

   It's a love affair that may have started in a Paris bistro or a
cafe in Tuscany _ the love affair, that is, between an American
traveler and European wines, writes New York-based free-lance
writer Everett Potter. For those enamored of the grape, there are
wine tours that show off the best of Europe's vineyards and
wineries. Potter offers a taste in this feature.

   (slugged: BC-CALLING-ALL-FINE-WINE-FANS-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION ... contact one of these New York Times
Syndicate sales representatives:

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. &LR;

   (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.

   Many Thanks!

   The New York Times Syndicate

   &UR; (New York headquarters: 212-499-3300 or 1-800-972-3550; fax,
212-499-3382.) &LR;
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   Brighten up your travel pages by purchasing one -- or all! -- of
the following features, which have been culled from The New York
Times Syndicate's ``WAY TO GO!'' travel package.

   (FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION, SEE BELOW!)

   .............ALL THE ART IS FREE!..............

   &UR; WHAT'S DOING IN BARCELONA &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; TWO COLOR SLIDES &QL; 
 &UR; (1,400 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By STEVEN GREENHOUSE &QL;

   Barcelona is a walker's paradise, especially this time of year.
To saunter through its Gothic Quarter, along the dark, narrow
streets and past the ancient artisans' shops, is to be transported
back to the Middle Ages. Walk up Passeig de Gracia, past the chic
boutiques and the daring, whimsical buildings by Antonio Gaudi,
Barcelona's favorite architectural son, and it is easy to
appreciate why this city is known as Spain's capital of design.
Steven Greenhouse, a reporter for The New York Times, reports on
where to go, what to see, where to eat ...

   (slugged: BC-BARCELONA'S-BEAUTY-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category codes t
and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; HAWAII FOR HALF PRICE _ AND MORE! &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (1,100 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By GENE AND ADELE MALOTT &QL;

   Spectacular discounts on tours to Europe for couples celebrating
their silver, ruby, gold or diamond anniversaries ... sizzling
summer bargains for ``swingers on the green'' ... savings on
safaris to Kenya ... they're all explained in this roundup of
travel discounts for the senior set, as reported by Gene and Adele
Malott, publishers of THE MATURE TRAVELER: Travel Bonanzas for
49ers-Plus, a newsletter for mature travelers.

   (slugged: BC-SPECIALS-FOR-SENIOR-SET-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; FINE WINE TOURS &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (900 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By EVERETT POTTER &QL;

   It's a love affair that may have started in a Paris bistro or a
cafe in Tuscany _ the love affair, that is, between an American
traveler and European wines, writes New York-based free-lance
writer Everett Potter. For those enamored of the grape, there are
wine tours that show off the best of Europe's vineyards and
wineries. Potter offers a taste in this feature.

   (slugged: BC-CALLING-ALL-FINE-WINE-FANS-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION ... contact one of these New York Times
Syndicate sales representatives:

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. &LR;

   (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.

   Many Thanks!

   The New York Times Syndicate

   &UR; (New York headquarters: 212-499-3300 or 1-800-972-3550; fax,
212-499-3382.) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0102 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:49 ',
			header: '
A4664 &Cx1f; tab-z
u t &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-AROUND-THE-WORLD-ADVI     06-11 0500
',
			slug: ' BC-AROUND-THE-WORLD-ADVISORY-NYTSF ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Brighten up your travel pages by purchasing one -- or all! -- of
the following features, which have been culled from The New York
Times Syndicate's ``WAY TO GO!'' travel package.

   (FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION, SEE BELOW!)

   .............ALL THE ART IS FREE!..............

   &UR; WHAT'S DOING IN BARCELONA &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; TWO COLOR SLIDES &QL; 
 &UR; (1,400 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By STEVEN GREENHOUSE &QL;

   Barcelona is a walker's paradise, especially this time of year.
To saunter through its Gothic Quarter, along the dark, narrow
streets and past the ancient artisans' shops, is to be transported
back to the Middle Ages. Walk up Passeig de Gracia, past the chic
boutiques and the daring, whimsical buildings by Antonio Gaudi,
Barcelona's favorite architectural son, and it is easy to
appreciate why this city is known as Spain's capital of design.
Steven Greenhouse, a reporter for The New York Times, reports on
where to go, what to see, where to eat ...

   (slugged: BC-BARCELONA'S-BEAUTY-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category codes t
and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; HAWAII FOR HALF PRICE _ AND MORE! &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (1,100 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By GENE AND ADELE MALOTT &QL;

   Spectacular discounts on tours to Europe for couples celebrating
their silver, ruby, gold or diamond anniversaries ... sizzling
summer bargains for ``swingers on the green'' ... savings on
safaris to Kenya ... they're all explained in this roundup of
travel discounts for the senior set, as reported by Gene and Adele
Malott, publishers of THE MATURE TRAVELER: Travel Bonanzas for
49ers-Plus, a newsletter for mature travelers.

   (slugged: BC-SPECIALS-FOR-SENIOR-SET-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; FINE WINE TOURS &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (900 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By EVERETT POTTER &QL;

   It's a love affair that may have started in a Paris bistro or a
cafe in Tuscany _ the love affair, that is, between an American
traveler and European wines, writes New York-based free-lance
writer Everett Potter. For those enamored of the grape, there are
wine tours that show off the best of Europe's vineyards and
wineries. Potter offers a taste in this feature.

   (slugged: BC-CALLING-ALL-FINE-WINE-FANS-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION ... contact one of these New York Times
Syndicate sales representatives:

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. &LR;

   (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.

   Many Thanks!

   The New York Times Syndicate

   &UR; (New York headquarters: 212-499-3300 or 1-800-972-3550; fax,
212-499-3382.) &LR;
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   Brighten up your travel pages by purchasing one -- or all! -- of
the following features, which have been culled from The New York
Times Syndicate's ``WAY TO GO!'' travel package.

   (FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION, SEE BELOW!)

   .............ALL THE ART IS FREE!..............

   &UR; WHAT'S DOING IN BARCELONA &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; TWO COLOR SLIDES &QL; 
 &UR; (1,400 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By STEVEN GREENHOUSE &QL;

   Barcelona is a walker's paradise, especially this time of year.
To saunter through its Gothic Quarter, along the dark, narrow
streets and past the ancient artisans' shops, is to be transported
back to the Middle Ages. Walk up Passeig de Gracia, past the chic
boutiques and the daring, whimsical buildings by Antonio Gaudi,
Barcelona's favorite architectural son, and it is easy to
appreciate why this city is known as Spain's capital of design.
Steven Greenhouse, a reporter for The New York Times, reports on
where to go, what to see, where to eat ...

   (slugged: BC-BARCELONA'S-BEAUTY-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category codes t
and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; HAWAII FOR HALF PRICE _ AND MORE! &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (1,100 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By GENE AND ADELE MALOTT &QL;

   Spectacular discounts on tours to Europe for couples celebrating
their silver, ruby, gold or diamond anniversaries ... sizzling
summer bargains for ``swingers on the green'' ... savings on
safaris to Kenya ... they're all explained in this roundup of
travel discounts for the senior set, as reported by Gene and Adele
Malott, publishers of THE MATURE TRAVELER: Travel Bonanzas for
49ers-Plus, a newsletter for mature travelers.

   (slugged: BC-SPECIALS-FOR-SENIOR-SET-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   &UR; FINE WINE TOURS &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ONE COLOR SLIDE &QL; 
 &UR; (900 words) &QL; 
 &UR; By EVERETT POTTER &QL;

   It's a love affair that may have started in a Paris bistro or a
cafe in Tuscany _ the love affair, that is, between an American
traveler and European wines, writes New York-based free-lance
writer Everett Potter. For those enamored of the grape, there are
wine tours that show off the best of Europe's vineyards and
wineries. Potter offers a taste in this feature.

   (slugged: BC-CALLING-ALL-FINE-WINE-FANS-TRAVEL-NYTSF, category
codes t and l)

   -------------------------------------------

   FOR PURCHASE INFORMATION ... contact one of these New York Times
Syndicate sales representatives:

   (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.

   (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. &LR;

   (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.

   Many Thanks!

   The New York Times Syndicate

   &UR; (New York headquarters: 212-499-3300 or 1-800-972-3550; fax,
212-499-3382.) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0103 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:50 ',
			header: '
A4672 &Cx1f; tab-z
u t &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BARCELONA'S-BEAUTY-TR     06-11 1707
',
			slug: ' BC-BARCELONA'S-BEAUTY-TRAVEL-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
WHAT'S DOING IN BARCELONA 
',
			trailer: '
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (To purchase this special ``one-shot'' feature culled from The
New York Times Syndicate's ``Way To Go!'' travel package _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ contact one of the following sales
representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. 
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    ---------------------FREE ART!---------------------
 &HT;    TWO COLOR SLIDES are available by mail (or overnight delivery,
using your FedEx or Airborne delivery number) AT NO EXTRA CHARGE to
purchasers of this article. Please specify that you want the art
when you order the article.
 &HT;    ---------------------------------------------------
 &HT;    
 &HT;    (Our sales staff also has information on how to subscribe to
``WAY TO GO,'' a versatile package of six travel stories a week,
including Q&AMP;A travel tips and ``The Mature Traveler'' column.
Sources include The New York Times Sunday travel section and
leading travel writers.)
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``t'' travel news and ``l'' lifestyle news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
 &HT;    Barcelona is a walker's paradise, especially in spring. It has
old and new, sea and mountain, postmodern and primitive.
 &HT;    To saunter through its Gothic Quarter, along the dark, narrow
streets and past the ancient artisans' shops, is to be transported
back to the Middle Ages. Walk up Passeig de Gracia, past the chic
boutiques and the daring, whimsical buildings by Antonio Gaudi,
Barcelona's favorite architectural son, and it is easy to
appreciate why this city is known as Spain's capital of design.
 &HT;    And, of course, there is Las Ramblas, the city's most famous
thoroughfare, where people gawk for hours at performance artists,
portrait painters, parrots on sale and the parade of pedestrians.
 &HT;    This city spruced itself up considerably for the 1992 Olympic
Summer Games, a face lift that is still paying off.
 &HT;    Dozens of old factories and seedy restaurants that blocked
access to the waterfront were torn down, creating a Mediterranean
beach marvelous for strolling and sunbathing.
 &HT;    After 40 years in which Franco repressed Barcelona, the Catalan
language and the culture of the region, this proud city has
strained to make Catalan culture flourish again.
 &HT;    Scores of townspeople dance the traditional Sardana on Sunday
mornings in front of the 14th-century Cathedral. In 1995, the city
opened the Barcelona Museum of Contemporary Art, a glistening white
sun-drenched building designed by the American Richard Meier.
 &HT;    And the government has put together a delightful walking tour,
the Ruta de Modernisme, to showcase Gaudi and other
turn-of-the-century architects in the Modernist school who used
themes from myth and nature to take design in a new direction.
 EVENTS  
 &HT;    The Barcelona Museum of Contemporary Art is staging an
exhibition through June 21 of the works of a fast-rising Majorcan
artist, Miquel Barcelo.
 &HT;    His kinetic canvases cover a vast range of subjects: Saharan
landscapes, sumptuous feasts, African flood victims, portraits of
friends and animal carcasses.
 &HT;    The museum, 1 Placa dels Angels, (34-93) 412-0810, is open
Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday noon to 8 p.m., Saturday 10
a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sunday 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Admission: $4.70,
calculated at 149 pesetas to the dollar.
 &HT;    After years of renovation, the National Museum of Catalan Art,
which served as the National Palace in the 1929 World's Fair,
recently reopened.
 &HT;    The museum, in Montjuic Park, has a spectacular collection of
12th- and 13th-century frescoes and altarpieces moved from remote
churches in the Pyrenees. (34-93) 423-7199. Open Tuesday to
Saturday 10 a.m. to 7 p.m., Thursday until 9:30 p.m., and Sunday
until 2:30 p.m.; $5.
 &HT;    One of the biggest festivals each year is the Night of Saint
John (also called Midsummer's Night), which falls on June 23. In
small towns throughout Catalonia, people build huge pyres of old
furniture and wood shavings and then jump over the embers seven
times.
 &HT;    In Barcelona, there is a fireworks display and all-night party
with music on Montjuic.
 SIGHTSEEING  
 &HT;    The Gothic Quarter resembles a maze, with surprises wherever one
turns. On torrid summer days, the Cathedral's well-shaded cloister,
with its cool stone and many plants, is the perfect escape.
 &HT;    Cavelike bars, with sausages hanging from the ceiling, look like
they came straight out of a Cervantes novel.
 &HT;    The romantic should not miss two well-preserved squares: the
Placa del Pi, known for its cafes and guitar-strumming troubadors,
and the Placa de Sant Felipe Neri, an oasis of serenity with a
gentle fountain.
 &HT;    The Museum of the History of the City, housed in a 14th-century
mansion on Placa del Rei, (34-93) 315-1111, is full of wonders:
excavations of Roman ruins and a 17th-century six-story watchtower
from which guardsmen studied the sea for enemy ships. Summer hours:
Tuesday to Saturday 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., Sunday to 2 p.m. $3.30.
 &HT;    A five-minute walk from the museum is the soaring, stark Church
of Santa Maria del Mar, on Placa de Santa Maria, a 14th-century
structure with spectacular nave and columns. Unfortunately, its
ornate decorations were destroyed during the Spanish Civil War.
 &HT;    Those thirsting to see Gaudi works can buy a $10 Ruta de
Modernisme pass at the Center of Modernism, 35 Passeig de Gracia,
(34-93) 488-0139, a turn-of-the-century mansion designed by Lluis
Domenech i Montaner with breathtaking murals and a florid
stained-glass wall.
 &HT;    The pass provides admission to 10 Modernist buildings, including
Casa Batllo, 43 Passeig de Gracia, a Gaudi town house that looks
like a fairy-tale structure, and Casa Mila, 92 Passeig de Gracia, a
Gaudi apartment building famous for its undulating walls resembling
seaside cliffs, and phantom-shaped air ducts and chimneys.
 &HT;    It also includes admission to the Temple of the Sagrada Familia,
at 401 Mallorca, (34-93) 455-0247, the vast still-unfinished church
that Gaudi worked on for 43 years before his death in 1926. He is
buried in the crypt. Open daily 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
 &HT;    Gaudi lovers should not miss Guell Park, on Calle Olot, an
unfinished work that he designed to be a model community. It has a
brilliantly colored, serpentine mosaic bench, an outdoor hall of
stately columns and two guardhouses inspired by Hansel and Gretel.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.
 WHERE TO STAY  
 &HT;    Two single beds are customary in Barcelona, so those who prefer
a double bed should ask for one. Prices below do not include the 7
percent tax.
 &HT;    With many rooms facing the Cathedral, the Hotel Colon, a
charming, classical 147-room establishment, is ideally situated.
Doubles are $155. 7 Avenida de la Catedral; (34-93) 301-1404, fax
(34-93) 317-2915.
 &HT;    The elegant Duques de la Bergara, in a handsome Modernist
mansion near the Placa Catalunya, the city's main square, recently
expanded to 150 rooms when its owners bought an adjacent building.
Doubles cost $140. 11 Bergara; (34-93) 301-5151, fax (34-93)
317-3442.
 &HT;    Budget: A block from the Cathedral, the Regencia Colon is a
hospitable 55-room hotel with doubles at $97. 13 Sagristans;
(34-93) 318-9858, fax (34-93) 317-2822.
 &HT;    With doubles costing just $40, the 40-room Hotel Jardi is a
bargain, with many rooms facing the romantic Placa del Pi and Placa
Sant Josep Orio. 1 Placa Sant Josep Orio; (34-93) 301-5900, fax
(34-93) 318-3664.
 &HT;    Luxury: The Husa Palace, opened by Cesar Ritz in 1919, embodies
Old World elegance with its marble columns, stately restaurants and
well-appointed rooms. Near the fashionable Passeig de Gracia, the
161-room Palace, 668 Gran Via, (34-93) 318-4837, fax (34-93)
318-0148, charges $235 for a double room. The thick carpets,
antiques and landscapes on the walls bespeak opulence.
 WHERE TO EAT  
 &HT;    For a spectacular view of the Mediterranean and equally
impressive seafood, Cal Pinxo is the place to go. Situated in
Barceloneta, an up-and-coming neighborhood originally built for
fishermen's families, this restaurant, at 124 Baluard, (34-93)
221-5028, has excellent paella, sea bass (lubina) and esquexada, a
seafood salad full of olive oil and cod. Try a bottle of Yllera, a
smooth red wine from Old Castile. Dinner for two costs about $65,
with wine.
 &HT;    A popular place for business executives and artists is Senyor
Parellada, a bright yellow room filled with plants. The restaurant,
at 37 Argenteria, (34-93) 310-5094, has excellent hake with
donostiara sauce, containing olive oil, butter and lemon, and
angler fish with burnt garlic. Dinner for two: $65, with wine.
 &HT;    Widely considered one of the best tapas bars in a city famous
for tapas, Cal Pep, 8 Placa de les Olles, (34-93) 310-7961, has
seafood galore. At night, there are often lines for the bustling
marble bar, but it is worth the wait. Try the succulent baby squid
(chiperones), the grilled shrimp, the mussels and the spinach with
garbonzo beans and garlic. Dinner for two: $60, with wine.
 &HT;    Budget-minded tourists might try Agut, 16 Gignas, (34-93)
315-1709, with an $8.50 lunch menu with entree, wine and dessert
included. At night, menus are a la carte. The vegetable pie with
tomato sauce was tasty, as were the filet of hake with Provencal
sauce and the lasagna with escalivada, a mixture of grilled
peppers, eggplant and onions. Dinner for two: $40, with wine.
 &HT;    The $6.50 lunch menu is a stunning bargain at El Convent, in a
converted medieval convent, at 3 Jerusalem, (34-93) 317-1052, just
behind the colorful Boqueria food market. One recent lunch time,
appetizers included lentil salad, baby squid salad and asparagus
with garlic mousse.
 &HT;     (Steven Greenhouse is a reporter for The Times.)  
 &HT;     c.1998 Author  

',
			paragraphs: '
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0104 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:50 ',
			header: '
A4673 &Cx1f; tab-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BARCELONA'S-BEAUTY-TR     06-11 1707
',
			slug: ' BC-BARCELONA'S-BEAUTY-TRAVEL-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
WHAT'S DOING IN BARCELONA 
',
			trailer: '
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (To purchase this special ``one-shot'' feature culled from The
New York Times Syndicate's ``Way To Go!'' travel package _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ contact one of the following sales
representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. 
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    ---------------------FREE ART!---------------------
 &HT;    TWO COLOR SLIDES are available by mail (or overnight delivery,
using your FedEx or Airborne delivery number) AT NO EXTRA CHARGE to
purchasers of this article. Please specify that you want the art
when you order the article.
 &HT;    ---------------------------------------------------
 &HT;    
 &HT;    (Our sales staff also has information on how to subscribe to
``WAY TO GO,'' a versatile package of six travel stories a week,
including Q&AMP;A travel tips and ``The Mature Traveler'' column.
Sources include The New York Times Sunday travel section and
leading travel writers.)
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``t'' travel news and ``l'' lifestyle news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
 &HT;    Barcelona is a walker's paradise, especially in spring. It has
old and new, sea and mountain, postmodern and primitive.
 &HT;    To saunter through its Gothic Quarter, along the dark, narrow
streets and past the ancient artisans' shops, is to be transported
back to the Middle Ages. Walk up Passeig de Gracia, past the chic
boutiques and the daring, whimsical buildings by Antonio Gaudi,
Barcelona's favorite architectural son, and it is easy to
appreciate why this city is known as Spain's capital of design.
 &HT;    And, of course, there is Las Ramblas, the city's most famous
thoroughfare, where people gawk for hours at performance artists,
portrait painters, parrots on sale and the parade of pedestrians.
 &HT;    This city spruced itself up considerably for the 1992 Olympic
Summer Games, a face lift that is still paying off.
 &HT;    Dozens of old factories and seedy restaurants that blocked
access to the waterfront were torn down, creating a Mediterranean
beach marvelous for strolling and sunbathing.
 &HT;    After 40 years in which Franco repressed Barcelona, the Catalan
language and the culture of the region, this proud city has
strained to make Catalan culture flourish again.
 &HT;    Scores of townspeople dance the traditional Sardana on Sunday
mornings in front of the 14th-century Cathedral. In 1995, the city
opened the Barcelona Museum of Contemporary Art, a glistening white
sun-drenched building designed by the American Richard Meier.
 &HT;    And the government has put together a delightful walking tour,
the Ruta de Modernisme, to showcase Gaudi and other
turn-of-the-century architects in the Modernist school who used
themes from myth and nature to take design in a new direction.
 EVENTS  
 &HT;    The Barcelona Museum of Contemporary Art is staging an
exhibition through June 21 of the works of a fast-rising Majorcan
artist, Miquel Barcelo.
 &HT;    His kinetic canvases cover a vast range of subjects: Saharan
landscapes, sumptuous feasts, African flood victims, portraits of
friends and animal carcasses.
 &HT;    The museum, 1 Placa dels Angels, (34-93) 412-0810, is open
Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday noon to 8 p.m., Saturday 10
a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sunday 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Admission: $4.70,
calculated at 149 pesetas to the dollar.
 &HT;    After years of renovation, the National Museum of Catalan Art,
which served as the National Palace in the 1929 World's Fair,
recently reopened.
 &HT;    The museum, in Montjuic Park, has a spectacular collection of
12th- and 13th-century frescoes and altarpieces moved from remote
churches in the Pyrenees. (34-93) 423-7199. Open Tuesday to
Saturday 10 a.m. to 7 p.m., Thursday until 9:30 p.m., and Sunday
until 2:30 p.m.; $5.
 &HT;    One of the biggest festivals each year is the Night of Saint
John (also called Midsummer's Night), which falls on June 23. In
small towns throughout Catalonia, people build huge pyres of old
furniture and wood shavings and then jump over the embers seven
times.
 &HT;    In Barcelona, there is a fireworks display and all-night party
with music on Montjuic.
 SIGHTSEEING  
 &HT;    The Gothic Quarter resembles a maze, with surprises wherever one
turns. On torrid summer days, the Cathedral's well-shaded cloister,
with its cool stone and many plants, is the perfect escape.
 &HT;    Cavelike bars, with sausages hanging from the ceiling, look like
they came straight out of a Cervantes novel.
 &HT;    The romantic should not miss two well-preserved squares: the
Placa del Pi, known for its cafes and guitar-strumming troubadors,
and the Placa de Sant Felipe Neri, an oasis of serenity with a
gentle fountain.
 &HT;    The Museum of the History of the City, housed in a 14th-century
mansion on Placa del Rei, (34-93) 315-1111, is full of wonders:
excavations of Roman ruins and a 17th-century six-story watchtower
from which guardsmen studied the sea for enemy ships. Summer hours:
Tuesday to Saturday 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., Sunday to 2 p.m. $3.30.
 &HT;    A five-minute walk from the museum is the soaring, stark Church
of Santa Maria del Mar, on Placa de Santa Maria, a 14th-century
structure with spectacular nave and columns. Unfortunately, its
ornate decorations were destroyed during the Spanish Civil War.
 &HT;    Those thirsting to see Gaudi works can buy a $10 Ruta de
Modernisme pass at the Center of Modernism, 35 Passeig de Gracia,
(34-93) 488-0139, a turn-of-the-century mansion designed by Lluis
Domenech i Montaner with breathtaking murals and a florid
stained-glass wall.
 &HT;    The pass provides admission to 10 Modernist buildings, including
Casa Batllo, 43 Passeig de Gracia, a Gaudi town house that looks
like a fairy-tale structure, and Casa Mila, 92 Passeig de Gracia, a
Gaudi apartment building famous for its undulating walls resembling
seaside cliffs, and phantom-shaped air ducts and chimneys.
 &HT;    It also includes admission to the Temple of the Sagrada Familia,
at 401 Mallorca, (34-93) 455-0247, the vast still-unfinished church
that Gaudi worked on for 43 years before his death in 1926. He is
buried in the crypt. Open daily 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
 &HT;    Gaudi lovers should not miss Guell Park, on Calle Olot, an
unfinished work that he designed to be a model community. It has a
brilliantly colored, serpentine mosaic bench, an outdoor hall of
stately columns and two guardhouses inspired by Hansel and Gretel.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.
 WHERE TO STAY  
 &HT;    Two single beds are customary in Barcelona, so those who prefer
a double bed should ask for one. Prices below do not include the 7
percent tax.
 &HT;    With many rooms facing the Cathedral, the Hotel Colon, a
charming, classical 147-room establishment, is ideally situated.
Doubles are $155. 7 Avenida de la Catedral; (34-93) 301-1404, fax
(34-93) 317-2915.
 &HT;    The elegant Duques de la Bergara, in a handsome Modernist
mansion near the Placa Catalunya, the city's main square, recently
expanded to 150 rooms when its owners bought an adjacent building.
Doubles cost $140. 11 Bergara; (34-93) 301-5151, fax (34-93)
317-3442.
 &HT;    Budget: A block from the Cathedral, the Regencia Colon is a
hospitable 55-room hotel with doubles at $97. 13 Sagristans;
(34-93) 318-9858, fax (34-93) 317-2822.
 &HT;    With doubles costing just $40, the 40-room Hotel Jardi is a
bargain, with many rooms facing the romantic Placa del Pi and Placa
Sant Josep Orio. 1 Placa Sant Josep Orio; (34-93) 301-5900, fax
(34-93) 318-3664.
 &HT;    Luxury: The Husa Palace, opened by Cesar Ritz in 1919, embodies
Old World elegance with its marble columns, stately restaurants and
well-appointed rooms. Near the fashionable Passeig de Gracia, the
161-room Palace, 668 Gran Via, (34-93) 318-4837, fax (34-93)
318-0148, charges $235 for a double room. The thick carpets,
antiques and landscapes on the walls bespeak opulence.
 WHERE TO EAT  
 &HT;    For a spectacular view of the Mediterranean and equally
impressive seafood, Cal Pinxo is the place to go. Situated in
Barceloneta, an up-and-coming neighborhood originally built for
fishermen's families, this restaurant, at 124 Baluard, (34-93)
221-5028, has excellent paella, sea bass (lubina) and esquexada, a
seafood salad full of olive oil and cod. Try a bottle of Yllera, a
smooth red wine from Old Castile. Dinner for two costs about $65,
with wine.
 &HT;    A popular place for business executives and artists is Senyor
Parellada, a bright yellow room filled with plants. The restaurant,
at 37 Argenteria, (34-93) 310-5094, has excellent hake with
donostiara sauce, containing olive oil, butter and lemon, and
angler fish with burnt garlic. Dinner for two: $65, with wine.
 &HT;    Widely considered one of the best tapas bars in a city famous
for tapas, Cal Pep, 8 Placa de les Olles, (34-93) 310-7961, has
seafood galore. At night, there are often lines for the bustling
marble bar, but it is worth the wait. Try the succulent baby squid
(chiperones), the grilled shrimp, the mussels and the spinach with
garbonzo beans and garlic. Dinner for two: $60, with wine.
 &HT;    Budget-minded tourists might try Agut, 16 Gignas, (34-93)
315-1709, with an $8.50 lunch menu with entree, wine and dessert
included. At night, menus are a la carte. The vegetable pie with
tomato sauce was tasty, as were the filet of hake with Provencal
sauce and the lasagna with escalivada, a mixture of grilled
peppers, eggplant and onions. Dinner for two: $40, with wine.
 &HT;    The $6.50 lunch menu is a stunning bargain at El Convent, in a
converted medieval convent, at 3 Jerusalem, (34-93) 317-1052, just
behind the colorful Boqueria food market. One recent lunch time,
appetizers included lentil salad, baby squid salad and asparagus
with garlic mousse.
 &HT;     (Steven Greenhouse is a reporter for The Times.)  
 &HT;     c.1998 Author  

',
			paragraphs: '
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0105 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:50 ',
			header: '
A4674 &Cx1f; tab-z
u t &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SPECIALS-FOR-SENIOR-S     06-11 1377
',
			slug: ' BC-SPECIALS-FOR-SENIOR-SET-TRAVEL-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
HAWAII FOR HALF PRICE _ AND MORE! 
',
			trailer: '
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (To purchase this special ``one-shot'' feature culled from The
New York Times Syndicate's ``Way To Go!'' travel package _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ contact one of the following sales
representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. 
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    ---------------------FREE ART!---------------------
 &HT;    ONE COLOR SLIDE is available by mail (or overnight delivery,
using your FedEx or Airborne delivery number) AT NO EXTRA CHARGE to
purchasers of this article. Please specify that you want the art
when you order the article.
 &HT;    ---------------------------------------------------
 &HT;    
 &HT;    (Our sales staff also has information on how to subscribe to
``WAY TO GO,'' a versatile package of six travel stories a week,
including Q&AMP;A travel tips and ``The Mature Traveler'' column.
Sources include The New York Times Sunday travel section and
leading travel writers.)
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``t'' travel news and ``l'' lifestyle news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By GENE AND ADELE MALOTT 
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
 &HT;    The Royal Kona on Hawaii's Big Island offers discounts of up to
50 percent off room rates for mature travelers ages 55 and older.
 &HT;    A partial ocean-view room, the most economical, can be rented by
mature travelers for $80; an oceanfront for $90 and beachfront for
$125.
 &HT;    The Royal Laihaina on Maui offers up to 30 percent discounts as
does the Coconut Beach on Kauai _ all depending on availability.
Ask for the ``Royal Senior'' rate when you call, (800) 222-5642.
 &HT;    
 ANNIVERSARY DISCOUNTS  
 &HT;    From June through October, couples celebrating their silver (25
years), ruby (40 years), gold (50 years) or diamond (60 years)
anniversaries can claim 25 percent discounts on cruises by KD River
Cruises of Europe on most sailings on the Rhine and its
tributaries, the Main-Danube Canal and Danube, and the Elbe.
 &HT;    The anniversary does not need to take place during the cruise,
just during 1998.
 &HT;    For example, the eight-day cruises on the Danube that operate
between Budapest and either Nuremberg or Regensburg, Germany, cost
$820 to $1,275 for couples compared to the usual prices of $1,090
to $1,695.
 &HT;    For more information, call (800) 346-6525 from the Eastern
United States; (800) 858-8587 from the West, including Texas,
Alaska and Hawaii.
 &HT;    
 GREAT OUTDOORS  
 &HT;    The Fieldstone Inn in Hiawassee, Ga., offers two special senior
packages during 1998.
 &HT;    The Tee for Two golf package, available through December, costs
$222 (slightly higher from April to October) for two nights' double
occupancy and includes a standard guest room, 18 holes of golf with
cart, breakfast for two one morning and dinner for two one night.
 &HT;    Another special package, Excursion Elite, offers two nights in a
standard room, your choice of a tour of the J.C. Campbell Folk
School, a guided hike to High Shoals or guided pontoon boat cruise,
as well as one dinner and one breakfast, both for two.
 &HT;    The excursion package is $379 double occupancy and is available
Sunday to Thursday until Nov. 15. For more information, call (800)
545-3408.
 &HT;    
 AARP &AMP; WORLD EXPLORER  
 &HT;    AARP members can now get discounts of 20 percent off brochure
rates on selected cabin categories and dates from World Explorer
Cruises. Third and fourth passengers in cabins also sail free.
 &HT;    Seven 14-day Alaska cruises departing from Vancouver are offered
by World Explorer. Before AARP discounts are applied, rates range
from $1,895 to $3,095. Call World Explorer Cruises at (800)
854-3835 or AARP at (800) 424-3410.
 &HT;    
 SWINGERS ONLY  
 &HT;    Golfers ages 62 and older get 10 percent discounts on golf
instruction packages at John Jacobs' golf schools from July to
December.
 &HT;    What can make this deal even sweeter for the swinger is to apply
the 10 percent discount to his ``Summer Sizzler'' packages _ three
days of instruction, three nights' accommodations, most meals,
daily golf _ starting at $345 per person at four Jacobs schools:
San Ignacio in Green Valley, Painted Mountain in Mesa, and
Hillcrest, in Sun City West. All are in Arizona.
 &HT;    For more information, call (888) 554-3737.
 &HT;    
 HIGH FLYERS  
 &HT;    Mature travelers ages 60 and older get $2 off the $18.95
admission to Fantasy of Flight in Polk City, Fla.
 &HT;    Featured is an array of vintage aircraft, the sensation of
piloting an aircraft in flight simulators and now a 115-foot-tall
gas balloon that flies guests nearly 500 feet into the air.
 &HT;    For more information, call (941) 984-3500.
 &HT;    
 SOFT HISTORY RAFTING  
 &HT;    Salmon River Experience (SRE) Moscow, Idaho, offers a special
historical trip for travelers ages 55 and older on the Lower Gorge
of the Salmon and Snake Rivers as a way to experience nearly the
same terrain as Lewis and Clark when they made the journey.
 &HT;    This trip, from Aug. 17 to 19, also features informal campfire
discussions of Chinese mining in the region and the Nez Perce War.
 &HT;    The price is $539 and includes everything except sleeping bags.
Departure is from either Moscow or Lewiston, Idaho.
 &HT;    For more information, call (800) 892-9223 or visit
www.salmonriverexperience.com on the Web.
 &HT;    
 STRONG DOLLAR DEALS  
 &HT;    A strong U.S. dollar is paying off for American travelers,
whether they're heading to Europe or Asia.
 &HT;    Tauck Tours credits the stronger dollar combined with reduced
European prices for lower rates on more than half their European
``Yellow Roads'' itineraries in 1998.
 &HT;    These trips take their name from the colored roads on European
maps which denote the less-traveled and more scenic back roads.
 &HT;    Tauck says its greatest savings are in the 14-day Romantic
Germany program, reduced by 11 percent over last year; the 12-day
Alps of Switzerland, Austria and Italy, reduced by more than 10
percent; and a 14-day Holland to Switzerland program nearly 10
percent less.
 &HT;    For example, the Germany trip is priced at $3,590 for 1998
compared to $3,990 in 1997. Prices do not include airfare. Contact
your travel agent.
 &HT;    In 1998, trips to Asia offered by Overseas Adventure Travel
(OAT) also reflect savings, in some cases as much as $800 for a
couple.
 &HT;    A 15-day Discover Thailand program which cost $3,190 last year
is priced at $2,790 this year with Nov. 18 and Dec. 5 departures
slated.
 &HT;    A Nov. 4 departure is priced at $2,590 this year compared to
$2,990 last year.
 &HT;    OAT trips, which are designed for older travelers, include
round-trip international air.
 &HT;    For a catalog, call (800) 873-5628.
 &HT;    
 SAFARI SINGLES SAVINGS  
 &HT;    The single supplement will be waived on a special Kenya Safari
offered by African Travel Inc.
 &HT;    The land price of the tour is $2,395 for a December departure,
saving $650 on the single supplement. Air is $1,795 per person from
New York.
 &HT;    The Kenya Explorer includes visits to the Jane Goodall
Chimpanzee Sanctuary, Karen Blixen Museum and a nature walk in the
Aberdares. Reservations should be made through your travel agent.
 &HT;    For brochures, contact African Travel Inc., The Safari Building,
1100 E. Broadway, Glendale, Calif. 91205; (800) 421-8907.
 ----- 
 &HT;    Readers are invited to submit questions and comments to Gene and
Adele Malott, c/o The New York Times Syndicate, 122 East 42nd St.,
14th Floor, New York, N.Y. 10168. Send the Malotts a postcard from
your trip with ideas, questions and information on the bargains you
find for seniors.
 &HT;    Questions may also be sent to the Malotts by electronic mail.
The address is MatureTrav(at)aol.com. (For (AT) use the symbol on
your keyboard.)
 &HT;    _______ 
 &HT;     (The Malotts are the publishers of THE MATURE TRAVELER: Travel
Bonanzas for 49ers-Plus, a newsletter for mature travelers.)  
 &HT;     c.1998 The Mature Traveler Newsletter  

',
			paragraphs: '
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0106 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:50 ',
			header: '
A4675 &Cx1f; tab-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SPECIALS-FOR-SENIOR-S     06-11 1377
',
			slug: ' BC-SPECIALS-FOR-SENIOR-SET-TRAVEL-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
HAWAII FOR HALF PRICE _ AND MORE! 
',
			trailer: '
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (To purchase this special ``one-shot'' feature culled from The
New York Times Syndicate's ``Way To Go!'' travel package _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ contact one of the following sales
representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. 
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    ---------------------FREE ART!---------------------
 &HT;    ONE COLOR SLIDE is available by mail (or overnight delivery,
using your FedEx or Airborne delivery number) AT NO EXTRA CHARGE to
purchasers of this article. Please specify that you want the art
when you order the article.
 &HT;    ---------------------------------------------------
 &HT;    
 &HT;    (Our sales staff also has information on how to subscribe to
``WAY TO GO,'' a versatile package of six travel stories a week,
including Q&AMP;A travel tips and ``The Mature Traveler'' column.
Sources include The New York Times Sunday travel section and
leading travel writers.)
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``t'' travel news and ``l'' lifestyle news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By GENE AND ADELE MALOTT 
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
 &HT;    The Royal Kona on Hawaii's Big Island offers discounts of up to
50 percent off room rates for mature travelers ages 55 and older.
 &HT;    A partial ocean-view room, the most economical, can be rented by
mature travelers for $80; an oceanfront for $90 and beachfront for
$125.
 &HT;    The Royal Laihaina on Maui offers up to 30 percent discounts as
does the Coconut Beach on Kauai _ all depending on availability.
Ask for the ``Royal Senior'' rate when you call, (800) 222-5642.
 &HT;    
 ANNIVERSARY DISCOUNTS  
 &HT;    From June through October, couples celebrating their silver (25
years), ruby (40 years), gold (50 years) or diamond (60 years)
anniversaries can claim 25 percent discounts on cruises by KD River
Cruises of Europe on most sailings on the Rhine and its
tributaries, the Main-Danube Canal and Danube, and the Elbe.
 &HT;    The anniversary does not need to take place during the cruise,
just during 1998.
 &HT;    For example, the eight-day cruises on the Danube that operate
between Budapest and either Nuremberg or Regensburg, Germany, cost
$820 to $1,275 for couples compared to the usual prices of $1,090
to $1,695.
 &HT;    For more information, call (800) 346-6525 from the Eastern
United States; (800) 858-8587 from the West, including Texas,
Alaska and Hawaii.
 &HT;    
 GREAT OUTDOORS  
 &HT;    The Fieldstone Inn in Hiawassee, Ga., offers two special senior
packages during 1998.
 &HT;    The Tee for Two golf package, available through December, costs
$222 (slightly higher from April to October) for two nights' double
occupancy and includes a standard guest room, 18 holes of golf with
cart, breakfast for two one morning and dinner for two one night.
 &HT;    Another special package, Excursion Elite, offers two nights in a
standard room, your choice of a tour of the J.C. Campbell Folk
School, a guided hike to High Shoals or guided pontoon boat cruise,
as well as one dinner and one breakfast, both for two.
 &HT;    The excursion package is $379 double occupancy and is available
Sunday to Thursday until Nov. 15. For more information, call (800)
545-3408.
 &HT;    
 AARP &AMP; WORLD EXPLORER  
 &HT;    AARP members can now get discounts of 20 percent off brochure
rates on selected cabin categories and dates from World Explorer
Cruises. Third and fourth passengers in cabins also sail free.
 &HT;    Seven 14-day Alaska cruises departing from Vancouver are offered
by World Explorer. Before AARP discounts are applied, rates range
from $1,895 to $3,095. Call World Explorer Cruises at (800)
854-3835 or AARP at (800) 424-3410.
 &HT;    
 SWINGERS ONLY  
 &HT;    Golfers ages 62 and older get 10 percent discounts on golf
instruction packages at John Jacobs' golf schools from July to
December.
 &HT;    What can make this deal even sweeter for the swinger is to apply
the 10 percent discount to his ``Summer Sizzler'' packages _ three
days of instruction, three nights' accommodations, most meals,
daily golf _ starting at $345 per person at four Jacobs schools:
San Ignacio in Green Valley, Painted Mountain in Mesa, and
Hillcrest, in Sun City West. All are in Arizona.
 &HT;    For more information, call (888) 554-3737.
 &HT;    
 HIGH FLYERS  
 &HT;    Mature travelers ages 60 and older get $2 off the $18.95
admission to Fantasy of Flight in Polk City, Fla.
 &HT;    Featured is an array of vintage aircraft, the sensation of
piloting an aircraft in flight simulators and now a 115-foot-tall
gas balloon that flies guests nearly 500 feet into the air.
 &HT;    For more information, call (941) 984-3500.
 &HT;    
 SOFT HISTORY RAFTING  
 &HT;    Salmon River Experience (SRE) Moscow, Idaho, offers a special
historical trip for travelers ages 55 and older on the Lower Gorge
of the Salmon and Snake Rivers as a way to experience nearly the
same terrain as Lewis and Clark when they made the journey.
 &HT;    This trip, from Aug. 17 to 19, also features informal campfire
discussions of Chinese mining in the region and the Nez Perce War.
 &HT;    The price is $539 and includes everything except sleeping bags.
Departure is from either Moscow or Lewiston, Idaho.
 &HT;    For more information, call (800) 892-9223 or visit
www.salmonriverexperience.com on the Web.
 &HT;    
 STRONG DOLLAR DEALS  
 &HT;    A strong U.S. dollar is paying off for American travelers,
whether they're heading to Europe or Asia.
 &HT;    Tauck Tours credits the stronger dollar combined with reduced
European prices for lower rates on more than half their European
``Yellow Roads'' itineraries in 1998.
 &HT;    These trips take their name from the colored roads on European
maps which denote the less-traveled and more scenic back roads.
 &HT;    Tauck says its greatest savings are in the 14-day Romantic
Germany program, reduced by 11 percent over last year; the 12-day
Alps of Switzerland, Austria and Italy, reduced by more than 10
percent; and a 14-day Holland to Switzerland program nearly 10
percent less.
 &HT;    For example, the Germany trip is priced at $3,590 for 1998
compared to $3,990 in 1997. Prices do not include airfare. Contact
your travel agent.
 &HT;    In 1998, trips to Asia offered by Overseas Adventure Travel
(OAT) also reflect savings, in some cases as much as $800 for a
couple.
 &HT;    A 15-day Discover Thailand program which cost $3,190 last year
is priced at $2,790 this year with Nov. 18 and Dec. 5 departures
slated.
 &HT;    A Nov. 4 departure is priced at $2,590 this year compared to
$2,990 last year.
 &HT;    OAT trips, which are designed for older travelers, include
round-trip international air.
 &HT;    For a catalog, call (800) 873-5628.
 &HT;    
 SAFARI SINGLES SAVINGS  
 &HT;    The single supplement will be waived on a special Kenya Safari
offered by African Travel Inc.
 &HT;    The land price of the tour is $2,395 for a December departure,
saving $650 on the single supplement. Air is $1,795 per person from
New York.
 &HT;    The Kenya Explorer includes visits to the Jane Goodall
Chimpanzee Sanctuary, Karen Blixen Museum and a nature walk in the
Aberdares. Reservations should be made through your travel agent.
 &HT;    For brochures, contact African Travel Inc., The Safari Building,
1100 E. Broadway, Glendale, Calif. 91205; (800) 421-8907.
 ----- 
 &HT;    Readers are invited to submit questions and comments to Gene and
Adele Malott, c/o The New York Times Syndicate, 122 East 42nd St.,
14th Floor, New York, N.Y. 10168. Send the Malotts a postcard from
your trip with ideas, questions and information on the bargains you
find for seniors.
 &HT;    Questions may also be sent to the Malotts by electronic mail.
The address is MatureTrav(at)aol.com. (For (AT) use the symbol on
your keyboard.)
 &HT;    _______ 
 &HT;     (The Malotts are the publishers of THE MATURE TRAVELER: Travel
Bonanzas for 49ers-Plus, a newsletter for mature travelers.)  
 &HT;     c.1998 The Mature Traveler Newsletter  

',
			paragraphs: '
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0107 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:50 ',
			header: '
A4676 &Cx1f; tab-z
u t &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CALLING-ALL-FINE-WINE     06-11 1177
',
			slug: ' BC-CALLING-ALL-FINE-WINE-FANS-TRAVEL-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
FINE WINE TOURS 
',
			trailer: '
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (To purchase this special ``one-shot'' feature culled from The
New York Times Syndicate's ``Way To Go!'' travel package _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ contact one of the following sales
representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. 
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    ---------------------FREE ART!---------------------
 &HT;    ONE COLOR SLIDE is available by mail (or overnight delivery,
using your FedEx or Airborne delivery number) AT NO EXTRA CHARGE to
purchasers of this article. Please specify that you want the art
when you order the article.
 &HT;    ---------------------------------------------------
 &HT;    
 &HT;    (Our sales staff also has information on how to subscribe to
``WAY TO GO,'' a versatile package of six travel stories a week,
including Q&AMP;A travel tips and ``The Mature Traveler'' column.
Sources include The New York Times Sunday travel section and
leading travel writers.)
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``t'' travel news and ``l'' lifestyle news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By EVERETT POTTER 
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
 &HT;    It's a love affair that may have started in a Paris bistro or a
cafe in Tuscany _ the love affair, that is, between an American
traveler and European wines.
 &HT;    More than one oenophile (wine lover) has been born after a
memorable trip abroad. For those enamored of the grape, there are
wine tours that show off the best of Europe's vineyards and
wineries. Here's a taste. Rates are per-person, based on double
occupancy.
 &HT;     Esperienze Italiane Travel  (c/o Felidia Ristorante, 243 East
58th St., New York, N.Y. 10022; 212-758-1488; www.lidiasitaly.com)
was founded by chef and restauranteur Lidia Bastianich, who offers
visits to leading Italian restaurants and sessions with food and
wine experts in Tuscany and Umbria.
 &HT;    These are food and art trips as much as wine trips. For example,
in Tuscany, the food writer Burton Anderson and Baron Francesco
Ricasoli of the Castello Brolio estate are guests of honor.
 &HT;    There's a cooking demonstration in Chianti, olive-oil tastings
and wine tasting with producers from Isola e Olena and Fontodi
wines. The San Lorenzo market in Florence and Michelangelo's New
Sacristy are also on the itinerary.
 &HT;    The cost of the six-night trip is $3,950 and includes
accommodation and most meals.
 &HT;     France In Your Glass  (814 35th Ave., Seattle, Wash. 98122;
800-578-0903; www.inyourglass.com) is the leading American company
for wine tours and vacations to the greatest wine-growing regions
of France. That's no easy task.
 &HT;    Unlike Napa and Sonoma Valleys in California, with their
open-door policies and tasting rooms that welcome one and all, the
great wine chateaux in France are virtually inaccessible without a
formal initiation.
 &HT;    France in Your Glass' founder and president Ronald Holden has
made his reputation by getting American wine-lovers past otherwise
locked gates. He offers the kind of access that only those in the
trade customarily have.
 &HT;    The ``Connoisseur Wine Programs'' allow guests to taste the most
prestigious wines of France in areas such as Bordeaux, Burgundy and
Champagne.
 &HT;    For example, ``Great Estates of Burgundy'' is a four-night
program that offers tours of the great Burgundian vineyards and
private visits and tasting with such ``negociants'' or shippers as
Bouchard and Leflaive and growers like Roumier, Matrot and Senard.
 &HT;    In addition, meals are at Michelin-starred restaurants and grand
cru wines are served.
 &HT;    Lodging for five nights in Beaune, daily breakfast and some
lunches and dinners are included in the $3,295 price.
 &HT;    Holden also offers weekends with wine expert Michael Broadbent,
a ``Grand Tour'' led by himself and Broadbent, culinary and food
vacations, and ```Your Way' Independent Wine Country Programs.''
 &HT;    These trips, in such regions as Alsace, Bordeaux, Burgundy,
Champagne and Provence, are for travelers who want to go along at
their own pace.
 &HT;    The price varies, but expect to pay at least $400 per person in
Burgundy or Bordeaux for up to three people for a one-day program
that includes lunch and visits with a local bilingual wine
professional.
 &HT;     The Parker Company  (319 Lynnway, Lynn, Mass. 01901;
800-280-2811; www.theparkercompany.com) calls its wine and
gastronomy tours to Italy the ``Great Wines of Italy.''
 &HT;    These are affordable three-day, three-night trips that explore
six regions of the country: Latium, Umbria, Tuscany,
Emilia-Romagna, Piedmont and Veneto.
 &HT;    Each tour costs $599 and includes three nights of lodging in
distinctive three- or four-star hotels, sommelier-guided tours,
daily buffet breakfast, lunch and dinner, admission to all wineries
and museums and motorcoach transportation.
 &HT;    Take Tuscany as an example. Guests rendezvous in the town of
Pienza at the Hotel Il Chiostro, a former 15th-century convent. The
first day, they travel to Montepulciano, visit the Redi cellars,
picnic in the Brunello vineyards, and sample the wines at the
Enoteca Regionale.
 &HT;    On day two, it's a similarly packed itinerary in Chianti, and on
day three, in Siena.
 &HT;    In between are picnics, gourmet dinners and a chance to taste
the greatest wines of the region. And the short duration of these
tours make them a good fit into any Italian vacation. It's possible
to combine consecutive three day trips as well.
 &HT;    A nine-day wine tour, for example, runs $1,595.
 &HT;    Finally, wine historians and lovers of the grape note the ``Fete
de Vignerons'' or the Wine Grower's Festival, a unique Swiss
celebration that is held but five times a century in the Lake
Geneva waterside town of Vevey.
 &HT;    More than 250,000 people are expected to attend the last ``Fete
de Vignorons'' of this century, which will be held next year, from
July 26 to Aug. 15, 1999.
 &HT;    Now, of course, is the time to book tickets and a hotel room for
what will likely be a sold-out event.
 &HT;    The festival dates back to 1819, when a banquet and village
parade were the rewards for an outstanding harvest.
 &HT;    Organized by the ``Confrerie des Vignorons,'' the fraternity of
wine growers, the festivities and parade have become increasingly
elaborate over the years.
 &HT;    In 1999, over 4,600 actors and artists will participate in the
spectacle, utilizing a new 18,000-seat arena overlooking Lake
Geneva and the French Alps.
 &HT;    For information on tickets and accommodation, contact
Switzerland Tourism, 608 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. 10020;
212-757-5944; www.lake-geneva-region.ch.
 ---- 
 &HT;     (Everett Potter is a New York-based free-lance writer.)  
 &HT;     c.1998 Everett Potter  

',
			paragraphs: '
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0108 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:50 ',
			header: '
A4677 &Cx1f; tab-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CALLING-ALL-FINE-WINE     06-11 1177
',
			slug: ' BC-CALLING-ALL-FINE-WINE-FANS-TRAVEL-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
FINE WINE TOURS 
',
			trailer: '
',
			body: '


   &HT;    (To purchase this special ``one-shot'' feature culled from The
New York Times Syndicate's ``Way To Go!'' travel package _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ contact one of the following sales
representatives:
 &HT;    (_ U.S. and the Pacific: CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444.
 &HT;    (_ Europe and Asia: KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11; fax,
47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81; telex, 282-942. 
 &HT;    (_ Latin America: OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles at (310)
996-0075; fax: 310-996-0089.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    ---------------------FREE ART!---------------------
 &HT;    ONE COLOR SLIDE is available by mail (or overnight delivery,
using your FedEx or Airborne delivery number) AT NO EXTRA CHARGE to
purchasers of this article. Please specify that you want the art
when you order the article.
 &HT;    ---------------------------------------------------
 &HT;    
 &HT;    (Our sales staff also has information on how to subscribe to
``WAY TO GO,'' a versatile package of six travel stories a week,
including Q&AMP;A travel tips and ``The Mature Traveler'' column.
Sources include The New York Times Sunday travel section and
leading travel writers.)
 &HT;    
 (PLEASE NOTE: This article has been transmitted twice _ into the
``t'' travel news and ``l'' lifestyle news files.)  
 &HT;    
 By EVERETT POTTER 
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
 &HT;    It's a love affair that may have started in a Paris bistro or a
cafe in Tuscany _ the love affair, that is, between an American
traveler and European wines.
 &HT;    More than one oenophile (wine lover) has been born after a
memorable trip abroad. For those enamored of the grape, there are
wine tours that show off the best of Europe's vineyards and
wineries. Here's a taste. Rates are per-person, based on double
occupancy.
 &HT;     Esperienze Italiane Travel  (c/o Felidia Ristorante, 243 East
58th St., New York, N.Y. 10022; 212-758-1488; www.lidiasitaly.com)
was founded by chef and restauranteur Lidia Bastianich, who offers
visits to leading Italian restaurants and sessions with food and
wine experts in Tuscany and Umbria.
 &HT;    These are food and art trips as much as wine trips. For example,
in Tuscany, the food writer Burton Anderson and Baron Francesco
Ricasoli of the Castello Brolio estate are guests of honor.
 &HT;    There's a cooking demonstration in Chianti, olive-oil tastings
and wine tasting with producers from Isola e Olena and Fontodi
wines. The San Lorenzo market in Florence and Michelangelo's New
Sacristy are also on the itinerary.
 &HT;    The cost of the six-night trip is $3,950 and includes
accommodation and most meals.
 &HT;     France In Your Glass  (814 35th Ave., Seattle, Wash. 98122;
800-578-0903; www.inyourglass.com) is the leading American company
for wine tours and vacations to the greatest wine-growing regions
of France. That's no easy task.
 &HT;    Unlike Napa and Sonoma Valleys in California, with their
open-door policies and tasting rooms that welcome one and all, the
great wine chateaux in France are virtually inaccessible without a
formal initiation.
 &HT;    France in Your Glass' founder and president Ronald Holden has
made his reputation by getting American wine-lovers past otherwise
locked gates. He offers the kind of access that only those in the
trade customarily have.
 &HT;    The ``Connoisseur Wine Programs'' allow guests to taste the most
prestigious wines of France in areas such as Bordeaux, Burgundy and
Champagne.
 &HT;    For example, ``Great Estates of Burgundy'' is a four-night
program that offers tours of the great Burgundian vineyards and
private visits and tasting with such ``negociants'' or shippers as
Bouchard and Leflaive and growers like Roumier, Matrot and Senard.
 &HT;    In addition, meals are at Michelin-starred restaurants and grand
cru wines are served.
 &HT;    Lodging for five nights in Beaune, daily breakfast and some
lunches and dinners are included in the $3,295 price.
 &HT;    Holden also offers weekends with wine expert Michael Broadbent,
a ``Grand Tour'' led by himself and Broadbent, culinary and food
vacations, and ```Your Way' Independent Wine Country Programs.''
 &HT;    These trips, in such regions as Alsace, Bordeaux, Burgundy,
Champagne and Provence, are for travelers who want to go along at
their own pace.
 &HT;    The price varies, but expect to pay at least $400 per person in
Burgundy or Bordeaux for up to three people for a one-day program
that includes lunch and visits with a local bilingual wine
professional.
 &HT;     The Parker Company  (319 Lynnway, Lynn, Mass. 01901;
800-280-2811; www.theparkercompany.com) calls its wine and
gastronomy tours to Italy the ``Great Wines of Italy.''
 &HT;    These are affordable three-day, three-night trips that explore
six regions of the country: Latium, Umbria, Tuscany,
Emilia-Romagna, Piedmont and Veneto.
 &HT;    Each tour costs $599 and includes three nights of lodging in
distinctive three- or four-star hotels, sommelier-guided tours,
daily buffet breakfast, lunch and dinner, admission to all wineries
and museums and motorcoach transportation.
 &HT;    Take Tuscany as an example. Guests rendezvous in the town of
Pienza at the Hotel Il Chiostro, a former 15th-century convent. The
first day, they travel to Montepulciano, visit the Redi cellars,
picnic in the Brunello vineyards, and sample the wines at the
Enoteca Regionale.
 &HT;    On day two, it's a similarly packed itinerary in Chianti, and on
day three, in Siena.
 &HT;    In between are picnics, gourmet dinners and a chance to taste
the greatest wines of the region. And the short duration of these
tours make them a good fit into any Italian vacation. It's possible
to combine consecutive three day trips as well.
 &HT;    A nine-day wine tour, for example, runs $1,595.
 &HT;    Finally, wine historians and lovers of the grape note the ``Fete
de Vignerons'' or the Wine Grower's Festival, a unique Swiss
celebration that is held but five times a century in the Lake
Geneva waterside town of Vevey.
 &HT;    More than 250,000 people are expected to attend the last ``Fete
de Vignorons'' of this century, which will be held next year, from
July 26 to Aug. 15, 1999.
 &HT;    Now, of course, is the time to book tickets and a hotel room for
what will likely be a sold-out event.
 &HT;    The festival dates back to 1819, when a banquet and village
parade were the rewards for an outstanding harvest.
 &HT;    Organized by the ``Confrerie des Vignorons,'' the fraternity of
wine growers, the festivities and parade have become increasingly
elaborate over the years.
 &HT;    In 1999, over 4,600 actors and artists will participate in the
spectacle, utilizing a new 18,000-seat arena overlooking Lake
Geneva and the French Alps.
 &HT;    For information on tickets and accommodation, contact
Switzerland Tourism, 608 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. 10020;
212-757-5944; www.lake-geneva-region.ch.
 ---- 
 &HT;     (Everett Potter is a New York-based free-lance writer.)  
 &HT;     c.1998 Everett Potter  

',
			paragraphs: '
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0109 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:51 ',
			header: '
A4685 &Cx1f; tab-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-DRLAURA-COLUMN-$adv19     06-11 0956
',
			slug: ' BC-DRLAURA-COLUMN-$adv19-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
MOM FINALLY GETS WITH THE PARENT PROGRAM -- WITH APOLOGIES  
 FOR USE FRI., JUNE 19, OR ANYTIME THEREAFTER.
',
			trailer: '
   QUESTION: I owe you this letter of apology. After calling you on
your radio program I thought your feedback was simplistic. I was
wrong. Your insight was right.

   Here's what happened. I told you we had bought a condo for my
daughter while she went to college. We were paying all her
expenses. After trying to reach her on several nights, late, she
finally admitted she sometimes stayed late at her boyfriend's house
to study -- but no sex. She further informed me that since she was
an adult now, we didn't have any right to ask, know, or direct her
life.

   You told me that too many young people try this maneuver --
wanting the independence and power of an adult while in the comfort
of a dependent position. You told me we should lovingly inform her
that ``the buck stops here,'' and her independence begins. I spoke
with my therapist about this and she thought it was too severe.

   Well, we came to find out my daughter was sleeping with her
boyfriend most of the week and that very little effort was going
into school. As you had advised, I told her that, while I didn't
agree with her choices, I accepted her as an adult who could make
her own decisions. If she wished to behave like an independent
adult, she needed to take on the responsibilities, too.

   We took back the condo and informed her that school finances
would now be her problem. We told her we loved her and that we
would always be there for her, but that she'd flown the nest. She
became very angry that she'd have to get a job now .... It was
actually laughable, and sad, to realize how spoiled her mentality
was.

   I apologize for taking so much time to see the error of my ways
-- it's sad how afraid we are of our kids' disapproval and
unhappiness. I was wrong. I have to teach her responsibility. Thank
you. (Seattle, Wash.)

   DR. LAURA: Thank you. It is curious, as you pointed out, how
we've changed from a society that attempts to make its children
self-sufficient and responsible at a young age, to a society that
worships our children's comfort and happiness at the expense of
their character development. I'm glad you ``got with the program.''

   QUESTION: I'm getting ready to get married and have a parent
problem. Some years ago they divorced. No real reasons -- just
bored with each other and wanting freedom. My dad found a new lady
and is happily married. My mother doesn't have anybody.

   My mother tells me she's uncomfortable coming to the wedding and
sitting with my dad and his new wife. I think she expects me to ask
my dad to leave his wife home or something equally mean and
unacceptable. I'm really angry at my mother for putting me in this
mess when I'm supposed to be happy about my wedding. I don't know
what to do to satisfy everybody's feelings. Suggestions? (Dallas,
Texas)

   DR. LAURA: If there were severe abuse, frequent affairs,
horrible addictions, I could understand the desire of the injured
party not to have to share equal billing. In your parents'
situation, they gave up on their vows and commitment because of
ennui. That your mother doesn't have a new fellow, and your father
has a new lady, is not sufficient reason to cater to your mother's
jealousy, resentment, or even wishfulness for things to be back
where they were.

   Tell your mother you regret she's alone, but that the point of
the evening is your nuptuals. Tell her you're counting on her to
cope with her many feelings for that evening, so that you can have
a memorable wedding. Tell her you love her and are hoping for a
display of strength similar to that which she correctly brought you
up to demonstrate.

   QUESTION: Should I give an ultimatum to my boyfriend of
two-and-a-half years? We are sexually intimate and are living
together. I have a 6-year-old from a prior relationship and want a
family for her. My boyfriend says he's not ready yet and not sure
he wants to be responsible for a child. What should I do? --
(Boston, Mass.)

   DR. LAURA: My guess from your brief letter, and so many
similar-sounding calls on my program, is that you don't have an
education or sense of purpose and direction in your life. You
continually take what I termed in my first book, ``The Ten Stupid
Things Women Do To Mess Up Their Lives,'' the female escape route:
you look to men, ``love'' and relationships for stability and
purpose.

   However, your desperation leads you to jump to whatever man
seems to want you. You don't take the time to see that he only
wants you for his convenience. And since you haven't taken the time
to mature and develop a respect for yourself based on your own
efforts and grit, you don't aspire for more in a man or a
relationship.

   Take your child, who isn't learning much of anything healthy
from you at this point, and go back to your parents' or some other
relative's home and take the time you need to mature.

   Focus in on the best interests of the child, not your loneliness
or need to be saved from yourself by some guy.

   -----

   (Questions may be sent to Dr. Laura Schlessinger c/o The New
York Times Syndication Sales Corp., 122 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y.
10168. Questions of general interest will be answered in this
weekly column. Dr. Laura regrets that unpublished letters cannot be
answered individually.)

   Copyright 1998 by Dr. Laura Schlessinger

   Distributed by New York Times Special Features
',
			body: '


   By DR. LAURA SCHLESSINGER 
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  

',
			paragraphs: '
   QUESTION: I owe you this letter of apology. After calling you on
your radio program I thought your feedback was simplistic. I was
wrong. Your insight was right.

   Here's what happened. I told you we had bought a condo for my
daughter while she went to college. We were paying all her
expenses. After trying to reach her on several nights, late, she
finally admitted she sometimes stayed late at her boyfriend's house
to study -- but no sex. She further informed me that since she was
an adult now, we didn't have any right to ask, know, or direct her
life.

   You told me that too many young people try this maneuver --
wanting the independence and power of an adult while in the comfort
of a dependent position. You told me we should lovingly inform her
that ``the buck stops here,'' and her independence begins. I spoke
with my therapist about this and she thought it was too severe.

   Well, we came to find out my daughter was sleeping with her
boyfriend most of the week and that very little effort was going
into school. As you had advised, I told her that, while I didn't
agree with her choices, I accepted her as an adult who could make
her own decisions. If she wished to behave like an independent
adult, she needed to take on the responsibilities, too.

   We took back the condo and informed her that school finances
would now be her problem. We told her we loved her and that we
would always be there for her, but that she'd flown the nest. She
became very angry that she'd have to get a job now .... It was
actually laughable, and sad, to realize how spoiled her mentality
was.

   I apologize for taking so much time to see the error of my ways
-- it's sad how afraid we are of our kids' disapproval and
unhappiness. I was wrong. I have to teach her responsibility. Thank
you. (Seattle, Wash.)

   DR. LAURA: Thank you. It is curious, as you pointed out, how
we've changed from a society that attempts to make its children
self-sufficient and responsible at a young age, to a society that
worships our children's comfort and happiness at the expense of
their character development. I'm glad you ``got with the program.''

   QUESTION: I'm getting ready to get married and have a parent
problem. Some years ago they divorced. No real reasons -- just
bored with each other and wanting freedom. My dad found a new lady
and is happily married. My mother doesn't have anybody.

   My mother tells me she's uncomfortable coming to the wedding and
sitting with my dad and his new wife. I think she expects me to ask
my dad to leave his wife home or something equally mean and
unacceptable. I'm really angry at my mother for putting me in this
mess when I'm supposed to be happy about my wedding. I don't know
what to do to satisfy everybody's feelings. Suggestions? (Dallas,
Texas)

   DR. LAURA: If there were severe abuse, frequent affairs,
horrible addictions, I could understand the desire of the injured
party not to have to share equal billing. In your parents'
situation, they gave up on their vows and commitment because of
ennui. That your mother doesn't have a new fellow, and your father
has a new lady, is not sufficient reason to cater to your mother's
jealousy, resentment, or even wishfulness for things to be back
where they were.

   Tell your mother you regret she's alone, but that the point of
the evening is your nuptuals. Tell her you're counting on her to
cope with her many feelings for that evening, so that you can have
a memorable wedding. Tell her you love her and are hoping for a
display of strength similar to that which she correctly brought you
up to demonstrate.

   QUESTION: Should I give an ultimatum to my boyfriend of
two-and-a-half years? We are sexually intimate and are living
together. I have a 6-year-old from a prior relationship and want a
family for her. My boyfriend says he's not ready yet and not sure
he wants to be responsible for a child. What should I do? --
(Boston, Mass.)

   DR. LAURA: My guess from your brief letter, and so many
similar-sounding calls on my program, is that you don't have an
education or sense of purpose and direction in your life. You
continually take what I termed in my first book, ``The Ten Stupid
Things Women Do To Mess Up Their Lives,'' the female escape route:
you look to men, ``love'' and relationships for stability and
purpose.

   However, your desperation leads you to jump to whatever man
seems to want you. You don't take the time to see that he only
wants you for his convenience. And since you haven't taken the time
to mature and develop a respect for yourself based on your own
efforts and grit, you don't aspire for more in a man or a
relationship.

   Take your child, who isn't learning much of anything healthy
from you at this point, and go back to your parents' or some other
relative's home and take the time you need to mature.

   Focus in on the best interests of the child, not your loneliness
or need to be saved from yourself by some guy.

   -----

   (Questions may be sent to Dr. Laura Schlessinger c/o The New
York Times Syndication Sales Corp., 122 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y.
10168. Questions of general interest will be answered in this
weekly column. Dr. Laura regrets that unpublished letters cannot be
answered individually.)

   Copyright 1998 by Dr. Laura Schlessinger

   Distributed by New York Times Special Features
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0110 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:52 ',
			header: '
A4686 &Cx1f; ttj-z
m n &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BALD-EAGLES-HNS &LR;      06-11 0503
',
			slug: ' BC-BALD-EAGLES-HNS ',
			headline: '
ONCE PRECARIOUSLY CLOSE TO EXTINCTION, EAGLES SOAR IN NEW YORK
STATE 
',
			trailer: '
   ALBANY, N.Y. _ New York bald eagles are soaring again.

   To the list of wildlife come-back successes in New York topped
off by the white-tail deer, wild turkey and striped bass, add our
national bird. But do so quietly, and still with fingers crossed.

   Bald eagles were so close to extinction here 20 years ago that
it's scary. There was only one native adult breeding pair left in
New York state in 1976, in the Montezuma refuge near Syracuse, when
the state began an ambitious, $500,000 resettlement program of
eaglets from Alaska.

   Over the next 13 years, 198 eaglets were banded and taken from
nests in Alaska to closely-watched hacking, or rearing, sites in
New York. Every one of those birds was fretted over by state
biologist Peter Nye, head of the then fledgling endangered species
unit of the Department of Environmental Conservation.

   The state unit was required under the federal Endangered Species
Act of 1973, landmark legislation that totally reshaped this
nation's commitment to threatened wildlife and more importantly,
altered public attitudes irrevocably.

   In the face of critics and naysayers from even within his own
agency, a persistent Nye came up with the resettlement plan in the
first place and was relentless and unflagging in its pursuit. He
still is. The spirit of the Endangered Species Act burns hot in
Nye.

   The entire unit does the Lord's work, but the motivation and
high standards were set early on by Nye. He has devoted enormous
energy and time to bringing back the bald eagle to New York, and
made it his professional and personal life's work. And it's
happening.

   Of the eagles from Alaska, some did not survive, some flew off
never to return or just to pass through, but the necessary few
``took.'' And in the nick of time. In 1980, the male of the last
two native bald eagles in the state was found shot dead at the foot
of the nest.

   ``But unbelievably, one of our young hacked male eagles came in
and took over the same nest with the existing female. A few years
later, the original female just disappeared, and another hacked
bird flew in to take her place and the transition was complete. The
nest was never vacant,'' Nye said, explaining just how close the
eagle was to extirpation _ the complete loss of a species.

   Now the future couldn't be more promising. Last spring, for the
first time in more than a century, a native eaglet was born on the
banks of the Hudson River.

   There are a known 27 healthy native eaglets in 20 nests all over
the state. There are two nests on the Hudson.

   The eaglets are about eight weeks old, and have another month to
go before they leave their aeries and take to the air. Then we will
see a soaring of eagles in New York such as has not been seen since
Abraham Lincoln was president.
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients.)  
 By FRED LeBRUN  
 c.1998 Albany Times Union  

',
			paragraphs: '
   ALBANY, N.Y. _ New York bald eagles are soaring again.

   To the list of wildlife come-back successes in New York topped
off by the white-tail deer, wild turkey and striped bass, add our
national bird. But do so quietly, and still with fingers crossed.

   Bald eagles were so close to extinction here 20 years ago that
it's scary. There was only one native adult breeding pair left in
New York state in 1976, in the Montezuma refuge near Syracuse, when
the state began an ambitious, $500,000 resettlement program of
eaglets from Alaska.

   Over the next 13 years, 198 eaglets were banded and taken from
nests in Alaska to closely-watched hacking, or rearing, sites in
New York. Every one of those birds was fretted over by state
biologist Peter Nye, head of the then fledgling endangered species
unit of the Department of Environmental Conservation.

   The state unit was required under the federal Endangered Species
Act of 1973, landmark legislation that totally reshaped this
nation's commitment to threatened wildlife and more importantly,
altered public attitudes irrevocably.

   In the face of critics and naysayers from even within his own
agency, a persistent Nye came up with the resettlement plan in the
first place and was relentless and unflagging in its pursuit. He
still is. The spirit of the Endangered Species Act burns hot in
Nye.

   The entire unit does the Lord's work, but the motivation and
high standards were set early on by Nye. He has devoted enormous
energy and time to bringing back the bald eagle to New York, and
made it his professional and personal life's work. And it's
happening.

   Of the eagles from Alaska, some did not survive, some flew off
never to return or just to pass through, but the necessary few
``took.'' And in the nick of time. In 1980, the male of the last
two native bald eagles in the state was found shot dead at the foot
of the nest.

   ``But unbelievably, one of our young hacked male eagles came in
and took over the same nest with the existing female. A few years
later, the original female just disappeared, and another hacked
bird flew in to take her place and the transition was complete. The
nest was never vacant,'' Nye said, explaining just how close the
eagle was to extirpation _ the complete loss of a species.

   Now the future couldn't be more promising. Last spring, for the
first time in more than a century, a native eaglet was born on the
banks of the Hudson River.

   There are a known 27 healthy native eaglets in 20 nests all over
the state. There are two nests on the Hudson.

   The eaglets are about eight weeks old, and have another month to
go before they leave their aeries and take to the air. Then we will
see a soaring of eagles in New York such as has not been seen since
Abraham Lincoln was president.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0111 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 13:57 ',
			header: '
A4692 &Cx1f; tad-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SPOT-BJT-FRIDAY0612     06-11 1169
',
			slug: ' BC-SPOT-BJT-FRIDAY ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   This is the Cox News Service spot news budget for Friday, April
3, 1998. We will update this budget at 6 p.m. ET.

   Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. ET
Monday-Friday. Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.
Monday-Friday.

   If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456. The night news editor, until 10
p.m. ET, is Todd C. Duncan at 404-582-7282.

   With questions about Washington-originated material, please call
our Washington Bureau:

   News editor Art Dalglish, 202-887-8338.

   Foreign editor Rick Christie, 202-887-8316.

   Bureau chief Andy Alexander, 202-887-8334.

   INTERNATIONAL

   CLINTON-CHINA _ WASHINGTON _ Two weeks before he travels to
China, President Clinton said Thursday that Beijing must apologize
``sooner or later'' for its bloody crackdown on democracy advocates
nine years ago in Tiananmen Square. For him to shun an official
welcoming ceremony there two weeks from Saturday, however, would be
placing symbolism over substance in the important U.S.-China
relationship, he said in a major speech on China policy. (Deans,
Cox News Service)

   WASHINGTON

   POLMONEY-HOUSE _ WASHINGTON _ The House resumes debate on
campaign finance reform. (Mollison, Cox News Service).

   TOBACCO _ WASHINGTON _ One day after a Florida jury awarded more
than $1 million damages in smoker's lawsuit against a cigarette
company, the Senate turns Thursday to the question of liability
caps in the comprehensive tobacco bill. (Lipman, Cox News Service).

   AIR-PASSENGERS _ A House subcommittee holds a hearing on the
problem of passenger interference with flight crews and on
legislation to limit carry-on baggage on aircraft to one item.
(Abulhassan, Cox News Service).

   DRUG-TRIALS _ WASHINGTON _ The House Government Reform and
Oversight subcommittee on human resources hears from ethicists,
drug companies, researchers and the inspector general of the
Department of Health and Human Services on an inspector general's
report that committees which oversee drug trials are overworked and
underfunded, leaving holes in the ``safety net'' that is supposed
to protect human drug experiment volunteers. (Nesmith, Cox News
Service).

   CENSUS-GINGRICH _ WASHINGTON _ Arguments are conducted Thursday
in a lawsuit by House Speaker Newt Gingrich seeking to prevent
Census Bureau from using sampling techniques in the 2000 Census.
(Sherman, Cox News Service).

   CHILD-LABOR _ WASHINGTON _ A Senate Labor subcommittee hearing
called by Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio, examines child labor practices
in the United States. (Joyce, Cox News Service).

   WOMAN-PRESIDENT _ WASHINGTON _ Marie Wilson, president of the
White House Project and the Ms. Foundation for Women, holds a
briefing to discuss a new public education campaign ``dedicated to
creating climate in American politics that will allow a qualified
woman to successfully run for the president within the next
decade.'' (Marselas, Cox News Service).

   APLUS _ Convinced that the education bill passed by the Senate
two months ago can't withstand a Democratic filibuster, Sen. Paul
Coverdell (R-Ga.) is negotiating with House and Senate leaders to
have his education savings account proposal tacked on to the
massive IRS reform bill now in conference committee. (Foskett, Cox
News Service)

   BARR _ CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa _ What is Bob Barr up to? A year ago
he was dismissed by many as the new Bob Dornan, but his talk of
impeachment proceedings no longer seems so far fetched. And, in a
surpise move, he will address the First in the Nation Gala in Cedar
Rapids tonight, an event filled with presidential aspirants. (Carr,
Cox News Service).

   NATIONAL

   TEXAS-KILL _ JASPER, Texas _ Trying for profiles of the victim
and the accused. (Mitchell, Lufkin Daily News)

   TEXAS-ARRIVALS _ JASPER, Texas _ We hear that Oprah may do a
show in Jasper, Geraldo may be on his way, Al Gore is coming and
Jesse Jackson is coming back. (Mitchell, Lufkin Daily News)

   BAPTIST _ SALT LAKE CITY _ Latest highlights from Southern
Baptist Convention meeting in Salt Lake City. Several resolutions
are expected to be voted on this morning, before ``Focus on the
Founder'' leader James Dobson speaks to the group. (White, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution)

   ORLANDO _ ORLANDO, Fla. _ Pat Robertson says Orlando should
watch out for floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, etc because it has
welcomed gays to Disney's gay days. What says Orlando? A
talk-of-the-town. (Williams, Atlanta Journal-Constitution)

   GM _ More on the strike. Workers at yet another Flint, Mich.,
plant might walk out tonight, creating more problems for the
world's largest automaker and its suppliers. We're also chasing
word that the Vandalia air bag plant is next in line to shut down
from lack of demand for parts. (Drummond, Dayton Daily News)

   JEWEL-GALAXY _ AUSTIN, Texas _ University of Texas astronomer
Fritz Benedict has been studying Galaxy NGC 4314 since 1980 for
clues to the formation of stars like our Sun. (Stanley, Austin
American-Statesman)

   FAGAN-TICKETSCAM _ MEMPHIS, Tenn. _ Federal agents are trying to
determine whether Stephen Fagan, in his final days as Dr. William
Martin, scammed a Memphis travel agent out of $50,000 worth of
airline tickets. The final purchases came on April 12, four days
before Fagan was arrested and charged with kidnapping his daughters
in Massachusetts 19 years ago. (Holland, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.

   OKEECHOBEE-PROBLEMS _ Egged on by a busload of outraged Treasure
Coast residents, water managers recently endorsed a plan to keep
Lake Okeechobee lower year-round and sharply reduce discharges of
polluted water into the St. Lucie River. But the proposal also
would spill more phosphorus-tainted water into the northern
Everglades. (King, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.

   TXBANS-FIREWORKS _ AUSTIN, Texas _ With the county so dry that
wildfires appear almost inevitable, Travis County Judge Bill
Aleshire declared an emergency outdoor burning ban _ prohibiting
fireworks and other flames that could scorch thousands of acres if
carelessly handled. Aleshire said if it doesn't rain soon and
often, the county commissioners will probably extend the ban
through the July 4 holiday. (Banta, Austin American-Statesman)
MOVED.

   TXAQUIFER-PROTECTED _ AUSTIN _ State environmental officials
want to toughen rules protecting the Edwards Aquifer, the source of
drinking water for 1.75 million people, from polluted runoff. The
proposed rules would affect thousands of acres in Central Texas,
and they've drawn fire from builders, who say the rules are too
strict and would add to the cost of housing. (Rivera, Austin
American-Statesman) MOVED.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 0612 &HT;    The Cox News Service spot news budget for Friday, June 12, 1998.
 &HT;    c.1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   This is the Cox News Service spot news budget for Friday, April
3, 1998. We will update this budget at 6 p.m. ET.

   Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. ET
Monday-Friday. Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.
Monday-Friday.

   If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456. The night news editor, until 10
p.m. ET, is Todd C. Duncan at 404-582-7282.

   With questions about Washington-originated material, please call
our Washington Bureau:

   News editor Art Dalglish, 202-887-8338.

   Foreign editor Rick Christie, 202-887-8316.

   Bureau chief Andy Alexander, 202-887-8334.

   INTERNATIONAL

   CLINTON-CHINA _ WASHINGTON _ Two weeks before he travels to
China, President Clinton said Thursday that Beijing must apologize
``sooner or later'' for its bloody crackdown on democracy advocates
nine years ago in Tiananmen Square. For him to shun an official
welcoming ceremony there two weeks from Saturday, however, would be
placing symbolism over substance in the important U.S.-China
relationship, he said in a major speech on China policy. (Deans,
Cox News Service)

   WASHINGTON

   POLMONEY-HOUSE _ WASHINGTON _ The House resumes debate on
campaign finance reform. (Mollison, Cox News Service).

   TOBACCO _ WASHINGTON _ One day after a Florida jury awarded more
than $1 million damages in smoker's lawsuit against a cigarette
company, the Senate turns Thursday to the question of liability
caps in the comprehensive tobacco bill. (Lipman, Cox News Service).

   AIR-PASSENGERS _ A House subcommittee holds a hearing on the
problem of passenger interference with flight crews and on
legislation to limit carry-on baggage on aircraft to one item.
(Abulhassan, Cox News Service).

   DRUG-TRIALS _ WASHINGTON _ The House Government Reform and
Oversight subcommittee on human resources hears from ethicists,
drug companies, researchers and the inspector general of the
Department of Health and Human Services on an inspector general's
report that committees which oversee drug trials are overworked and
underfunded, leaving holes in the ``safety net'' that is supposed
to protect human drug experiment volunteers. (Nesmith, Cox News
Service).

   CENSUS-GINGRICH _ WASHINGTON _ Arguments are conducted Thursday
in a lawsuit by House Speaker Newt Gingrich seeking to prevent
Census Bureau from using sampling techniques in the 2000 Census.
(Sherman, Cox News Service).

   CHILD-LABOR _ WASHINGTON _ A Senate Labor subcommittee hearing
called by Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio, examines child labor practices
in the United States. (Joyce, Cox News Service).

   WOMAN-PRESIDENT _ WASHINGTON _ Marie Wilson, president of the
White House Project and the Ms. Foundation for Women, holds a
briefing to discuss a new public education campaign ``dedicated to
creating climate in American politics that will allow a qualified
woman to successfully run for the president within the next
decade.'' (Marselas, Cox News Service).

   APLUS _ Convinced that the education bill passed by the Senate
two months ago can't withstand a Democratic filibuster, Sen. Paul
Coverdell (R-Ga.) is negotiating with House and Senate leaders to
have his education savings account proposal tacked on to the
massive IRS reform bill now in conference committee. (Foskett, Cox
News Service)

   BARR _ CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa _ What is Bob Barr up to? A year ago
he was dismissed by many as the new Bob Dornan, but his talk of
impeachment proceedings no longer seems so far fetched. And, in a
surpise move, he will address the First in the Nation Gala in Cedar
Rapids tonight, an event filled with presidential aspirants. (Carr,
Cox News Service).

   NATIONAL

   TEXAS-KILL _ JASPER, Texas _ Trying for profiles of the victim
and the accused. (Mitchell, Lufkin Daily News)

   TEXAS-ARRIVALS _ JASPER, Texas _ We hear that Oprah may do a
show in Jasper, Geraldo may be on his way, Al Gore is coming and
Jesse Jackson is coming back. (Mitchell, Lufkin Daily News)

   BAPTIST _ SALT LAKE CITY _ Latest highlights from Southern
Baptist Convention meeting in Salt Lake City. Several resolutions
are expected to be voted on this morning, before ``Focus on the
Founder'' leader James Dobson speaks to the group. (White, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution)

   ORLANDO _ ORLANDO, Fla. _ Pat Robertson says Orlando should
watch out for floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, etc because it has
welcomed gays to Disney's gay days. What says Orlando? A
talk-of-the-town. (Williams, Atlanta Journal-Constitution)

   GM _ More on the strike. Workers at yet another Flint, Mich.,
plant might walk out tonight, creating more problems for the
world's largest automaker and its suppliers. We're also chasing
word that the Vandalia air bag plant is next in line to shut down
from lack of demand for parts. (Drummond, Dayton Daily News)

   JEWEL-GALAXY _ AUSTIN, Texas _ University of Texas astronomer
Fritz Benedict has been studying Galaxy NGC 4314 since 1980 for
clues to the formation of stars like our Sun. (Stanley, Austin
American-Statesman)

   FAGAN-TICKETSCAM _ MEMPHIS, Tenn. _ Federal agents are trying to
determine whether Stephen Fagan, in his final days as Dr. William
Martin, scammed a Memphis travel agent out of $50,000 worth of
airline tickets. The final purchases came on April 12, four days
before Fagan was arrested and charged with kidnapping his daughters
in Massachusetts 19 years ago. (Holland, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.

   OKEECHOBEE-PROBLEMS _ Egged on by a busload of outraged Treasure
Coast residents, water managers recently endorsed a plan to keep
Lake Okeechobee lower year-round and sharply reduce discharges of
polluted water into the St. Lucie River. But the proposal also
would spill more phosphorus-tainted water into the northern
Everglades. (King, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.

   TXBANS-FIREWORKS _ AUSTIN, Texas _ With the county so dry that
wildfires appear almost inevitable, Travis County Judge Bill
Aleshire declared an emergency outdoor burning ban _ prohibiting
fireworks and other flames that could scorch thousands of acres if
carelessly handled. Aleshire said if it doesn't rain soon and
often, the county commissioners will probably extend the ban
through the July 4 holiday. (Banta, Austin American-Statesman)
MOVED.

   TXAQUIFER-PROTECTED _ AUSTIN _ State environmental officials
want to toughen rules protecting the Edwards Aquifer, the source of
drinking water for 1.75 million people, from polluted runoff. The
proposed rules would affect thousands of acres in Central Texas,
and they've drawn fire from builders, who say the rules are too
strict and would add to the cost of housing. (Rivera, Austin
American-Statesman) MOVED.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0112 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:06 ',
			header: '
A4698 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  AM-NYT-BUDGET &LR;      06-11 1106
',
			slug: '',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; FOR FRIDAY AMs &LR;

   Here are today's top news stories from The New York Times News
Service for AMs of Friday, June 12:

   &UR; Questions or reruns: &LR;   &UR; (212) 556-1927. &LR;

   The day supervisor is Gary E. McCardell (E-mail,
garymc(at)nytimes.com).

   The evening supervisor is Pat Ryan (E-mail,
patryan(at)nytimes.com).

   The late supervisor is Sam Weiss (E-mail,
saweis(at)nytimes.com).

   &UR; Technical problems: &LR;  Peter Trigg

   Phone: (212) 499-3332.

   Pager: (800) 946-4645 (PIN 599-4539).

   E-mail: triggp(at)nytimes.com.

   &UR; INTERNATIONAL &LR;  (``i'' code)

   CHINA-CLINTON (Washington) _ Clinton delivers speech at National
Geographic headquarters to explain China policy, defend his coming
trip. By John M. Broder.

   CHINA-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The Senate Foreign Relations
Committee hears from non-proliferation experts in and out of
government on subject of China missiles. By Eric Schmitt.

   INDONESIA-MILITARY (Jakarta) _ Indonesia's powerful military
affirms its backing for the reform movement that is spreading new
freedoms through the country but warns that it would crack down if
demonstrations and protests get out of hand. By Seth Mydans.

   PAKISTAN-NUKE (Islamabad) _ Pakistan announces a ``unilateral''
moratorium on nuclear testing and invites India to formally agree
to outlaw tests as a confidence building measure. By John Kifner.

   KOSOVO-NATO (Burssels) _ NATO will mount simulated air raids and
bombing runs over Albania and Macedonia, flexing its military
muscle to warn Yugoslavia against attacks on ethnic Albanians in
the separatist province of Kosovo. Alliance defense ministers
authorize the air-power exercise, which could launch NATO warplanes
from French, British or U.S. aircraft carriers in the Adriatic. By
Craig R. Whitney.

   With

   KOSOVO-RUSSIA (Moscow) _ Russian President Yeltsin invites Serb
leader Milosevic to Moscow. By Michael R. Gordon.

   CHILD-LABOR (Geneva) _ Labor Secretary Alexis Herman gives U.S.
backing to new international treaty outlawing child labor.

   IRAN-POLITICS (Cairo, Egypt) _ The start of a public corruption
trial of the mayor of Tehran has helped to turn up the political
temperature in Iran at a time when strains between conservatives
and moderates are on increasingly vivid display. By Douglas Jehl.

   &UR; WASHINGTON &LR;  (``w'' code)

   TOBACCO-CONGRESS (Washington) _ Developments on the tobacco
bill. By David E. Rosenbaubm.

   CLINTON-STARR (Washington) _ Developments in Kenneth Starr's
investigation of the president: Podesta returns to grand jury. By
Stephen Labaton.

   CENSUS-SUIT (Washington) _ A federal appeals court hears the
House Republican challenge to sampling efforts by Census Bureau. By
Steven A. Holmes.

   CAMPAIGN-FINANCE (Washington) _ Campaign finance developments.
By Alison Mitchell.

   &UR; NATIONAL GENERAL &LR;  (``a'' code)

   CHICAGO-GUN-SUIT (Chicago) _ Mayor Daley of Chicago is preparing
a suit against gun manufacturers, saying they should be held liable
for violence, like tobacco companies for sickness. This comes after
three families file a similar suit against manufacturers in Chicago
and Mayor Rendell's threat to do the same thing in Philadelphia. By
Pam Belluck.

   BAPTISTS (Salt Lake City) _ James Dobson speaks to Southern
Baptists in Salt Lake. By Gustav Niebuhr.

   NY-BARTENDERS-HATS (New York) _ Is the city's quality-of-life
campaign now forcing bartenders to wear hats? A bartender says he
was given a summons for breaking that obscure rule. We survey bars
high and low to see if their barkeeps will start wearing hats. By
Glenn Collins.

   NY-BUDGET (New York) _ The City Council votes on whether to
override the mayor's veto of its version of the city budget.

   NJ-MEGANS-LAW (Hackensack, N.J.) _ Attorney general issues new
guidelines that spell out better who should be notified about
Megan's law offenders.

   &UR; FINANCIAL &LR;  (``f'' code)

   ASIA-GLOOM (Hong Kong) _ That the Asian financial crisis is
mutating into the Asian recession is not a surprise. But the depth
of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and the gloom that
suffuses the region have surprised even the pessimists. By Mark
Landler.

   GM-STRIKE (Detroit) _ General Motors strike developments. By
Keith Bradsher.

   UNITED-TV-GUIDE (Undated) _ United Video Satellite Group, which
is owned by two subsidiaries of Tele-Communications Inc., buys TV
Guide magazine and other publications from the News Corp. for $2
billion in cash and stock. News Corp. will obtain a 40 percent
stake in United Video, which supplies television listing services
to cable providers and satellite dish owners. The units of
Tele-Communications Inc., TCI Ventures Group and Liberty Media,
will own 44 percent. The sale creates one big provider of
television listings through TV Guide and United Video's Preview
Networks. By Geraldine Fabrikant.

   EMPLOYEE-STOCK (Undated) _ The accounting standards board has
given preliminary approval to a change that may cause some
companies to reduce the scope of their employee stock-purchase
programs.

   MARKETPLACE (Undated) _ Th daily Marketplace column.

   NATSEMI-EARNINGS (Undated) _ National Semiconductor will report
earnings. By Lawrence M. Fisher.

   MARKET (New York) _ Stock market developments: The Dow Jones
Industrial Average was down 100 points at 1:30 p.m.

   CREDIT (New York) _ Credit market developments: The long bond
was up 11/32 at midday. By Robert Hurtado.

   &UR; COMMENTARY &LR;  (``k'' code)

   A.M. Rosenthal's ``On My Mind'' and Russell Baker's
``Observer''; details to come.

   &UR; Moving later:  &LR;

   AM-ADD-NYT-BUDGET _ A rundown of culture, lifestyle, sports, and
special section stories will move by 3:00 p.m. ET.

   AM-PAGE1-NYT-CONSIDER _ A list of stories being considered by
New York Times editors for Page 1 will move at 4:30 p.m.

   AM-EARLY-FRONTPAGE-NYT _ Stories scheduled for Page 1 will be
listed by 7 p.m.

   AM-FRONTPAGE-NYT _ A description of the front page layout of the
first edition of The New York Times will move at 7:30 p.m.

   &UR; New York Times Partners: &LR;

   Please note that your New York Times News Service report
includes news and features from The Arizona Republic, Bloomberg
News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, The Fort Worth
Star-Telegram, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Kansas
City Star, The Los Angeles Daily News, The San Francisco Chronicle,
The Seattle Post-Intelligencer, States News Service and the New
York Times Regional Newspapers.
',
			body: '
 AM-NYT-BUDGET  
(gm) 

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; FOR FRIDAY AMs &LR;

   Here are today's top news stories from The New York Times News
Service for AMs of Friday, June 12:

   &UR; Questions or reruns: &LR;   &UR; (212) 556-1927. &LR;

   The day supervisor is Gary E. McCardell (E-mail,
garymc(at)nytimes.com).

   The evening supervisor is Pat Ryan (E-mail,
patryan(at)nytimes.com).

   The late supervisor is Sam Weiss (E-mail,
saweis(at)nytimes.com).

   &UR; Technical problems: &LR;  Peter Trigg

   Phone: (212) 499-3332.

   Pager: (800) 946-4645 (PIN 599-4539).

   E-mail: triggp(at)nytimes.com.

   &UR; INTERNATIONAL &LR;  (``i'' code)

   CHINA-CLINTON (Washington) _ Clinton delivers speech at National
Geographic headquarters to explain China policy, defend his coming
trip. By John M. Broder.

   CHINA-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The Senate Foreign Relations
Committee hears from non-proliferation experts in and out of
government on subject of China missiles. By Eric Schmitt.

   INDONESIA-MILITARY (Jakarta) _ Indonesia's powerful military
affirms its backing for the reform movement that is spreading new
freedoms through the country but warns that it would crack down if
demonstrations and protests get out of hand. By Seth Mydans.

   PAKISTAN-NUKE (Islamabad) _ Pakistan announces a ``unilateral''
moratorium on nuclear testing and invites India to formally agree
to outlaw tests as a confidence building measure. By John Kifner.

   KOSOVO-NATO (Burssels) _ NATO will mount simulated air raids and
bombing runs over Albania and Macedonia, flexing its military
muscle to warn Yugoslavia against attacks on ethnic Albanians in
the separatist province of Kosovo. Alliance defense ministers
authorize the air-power exercise, which could launch NATO warplanes
from French, British or U.S. aircraft carriers in the Adriatic. By
Craig R. Whitney.

   With

   KOSOVO-RUSSIA (Moscow) _ Russian President Yeltsin invites Serb
leader Milosevic to Moscow. By Michael R. Gordon.

   CHILD-LABOR (Geneva) _ Labor Secretary Alexis Herman gives U.S.
backing to new international treaty outlawing child labor.

   IRAN-POLITICS (Cairo, Egypt) _ The start of a public corruption
trial of the mayor of Tehran has helped to turn up the political
temperature in Iran at a time when strains between conservatives
and moderates are on increasingly vivid display. By Douglas Jehl.

   &UR; WASHINGTON &LR;  (``w'' code)

   TOBACCO-CONGRESS (Washington) _ Developments on the tobacco
bill. By David E. Rosenbaubm.

   CLINTON-STARR (Washington) _ Developments in Kenneth Starr's
investigation of the president: Podesta returns to grand jury. By
Stephen Labaton.

   CENSUS-SUIT (Washington) _ A federal appeals court hears the
House Republican challenge to sampling efforts by Census Bureau. By
Steven A. Holmes.

   CAMPAIGN-FINANCE (Washington) _ Campaign finance developments.
By Alison Mitchell.

   &UR; NATIONAL GENERAL &LR;  (``a'' code)

   CHICAGO-GUN-SUIT (Chicago) _ Mayor Daley of Chicago is preparing
a suit against gun manufacturers, saying they should be held liable
for violence, like tobacco companies for sickness. This comes after
three families file a similar suit against manufacturers in Chicago
and Mayor Rendell's threat to do the same thing in Philadelphia. By
Pam Belluck.

   BAPTISTS (Salt Lake City) _ James Dobson speaks to Southern
Baptists in Salt Lake. By Gustav Niebuhr.

   NY-BARTENDERS-HATS (New York) _ Is the city's quality-of-life
campaign now forcing bartenders to wear hats? A bartender says he
was given a summons for breaking that obscure rule. We survey bars
high and low to see if their barkeeps will start wearing hats. By
Glenn Collins.

   NY-BUDGET (New York) _ The City Council votes on whether to
override the mayor's veto of its version of the city budget.

   NJ-MEGANS-LAW (Hackensack, N.J.) _ Attorney general issues new
guidelines that spell out better who should be notified about
Megan's law offenders.

   &UR; FINANCIAL &LR;  (``f'' code)

   ASIA-GLOOM (Hong Kong) _ That the Asian financial crisis is
mutating into the Asian recession is not a surprise. But the depth
of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and the gloom that
suffuses the region have surprised even the pessimists. By Mark
Landler.

   GM-STRIKE (Detroit) _ General Motors strike developments. By
Keith Bradsher.

   UNITED-TV-GUIDE (Undated) _ United Video Satellite Group, which
is owned by two subsidiaries of Tele-Communications Inc., buys TV
Guide magazine and other publications from the News Corp. for $2
billion in cash and stock. News Corp. will obtain a 40 percent
stake in United Video, which supplies television listing services
to cable providers and satellite dish owners. The units of
Tele-Communications Inc., TCI Ventures Group and Liberty Media,
will own 44 percent. The sale creates one big provider of
television listings through TV Guide and United Video's Preview
Networks. By Geraldine Fabrikant.

   EMPLOYEE-STOCK (Undated) _ The accounting standards board has
given preliminary approval to a change that may cause some
companies to reduce the scope of their employee stock-purchase
programs.

   MARKETPLACE (Undated) _ Th daily Marketplace column.

   NATSEMI-EARNINGS (Undated) _ National Semiconductor will report
earnings. By Lawrence M. Fisher.

   MARKET (New York) _ Stock market developments: The Dow Jones
Industrial Average was down 100 points at 1:30 p.m.

   CREDIT (New York) _ Credit market developments: The long bond
was up 11/32 at midday. By Robert Hurtado.

   &UR; COMMENTARY &LR;  (``k'' code)

   A.M. Rosenthal's ``On My Mind'' and Russell Baker's
``Observer''; details to come.

   &UR; Moving later:  &LR;

   AM-ADD-NYT-BUDGET _ A rundown of culture, lifestyle, sports, and
special section stories will move by 3:00 p.m. ET.

   AM-PAGE1-NYT-CONSIDER _ A list of stories being considered by
New York Times editors for Page 1 will move at 4:30 p.m.

   AM-EARLY-FRONTPAGE-NYT _ Stories scheduled for Page 1 will be
listed by 7 p.m.

   AM-FRONTPAGE-NYT _ A description of the front page layout of the
first edition of The New York Times will move at 7:30 p.m.

   &UR; New York Times Partners: &LR;

   Please note that your New York Times News Service report
includes news and features from The Arizona Republic, Bloomberg
News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, The Fort Worth
Star-Telegram, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Kansas
City Star, The Los Angeles Daily News, The San Francisco Chronicle,
The Seattle Post-Intelligencer, States News Service and the New
York Times Regional Newspapers.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0113 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:06 ',
			header: '
A4699 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FINANCIAL-NYT-BUDGET &LR;      06-11 0382
',
			slug: ' BC-FINANCIAL-NYT-BUDGET ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; FOR FRIDAY AMs  &LR;

   &UR; Financial stories in sight at this hour from The New York Times
News Service for newspapers of FRIDAY, June 12. &LR;

   For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other financial stories from our
partners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,
Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,
Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,
San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.

   ASIA-GLOOM (Hong Kong) _ That the Asian financial crisis is
mutating into the Asian recession is not a surprise. But the depth
of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and the gloom that
suffuses the region have surprised even the pessimists. By Mark
Landler.

   GM-STRIKE (Detroit) _ General Motors strike developments. By
Keith Bradsher.

   UNITED-TV-GUIDE (Undated) _ United Video Satellite Group, which
is owned by two subsidiaries of Tele-Communications Inc., buys TV
Guide magazine and other publications from the News Corp.n for $2
billion in cash and stock. News Corp. will obtain a 40 percent
stake in United Video, which supplies television listing services
to cable providers and satellite dish owners. The units of
Tele-Communications Inc., TCI Ventures Group and Liberty Media,
will own 44 percent. The sale creates one big provider of
television listings through TV Guide and United Video's Preview
Networks. By Geraldine Fabrikant.

   EMPLOYEE-STOCK (Undated) _ Accounting rulemakers have given
preliminary approval to a change that may cause some companies to
reduce the scope of their employee stock-purchase programs.

   MARKETPLACE (Undated) _ Th daily Marketplace column.

   NATSEMI-EARNINGS (Undated) _ National Semiconductor will report
earnings. By Lawrence M. Fisher.

   MARKET (New York) _ Stock market developments: The Dow Jones
Industrial Average was down 100 points at 1:30 p.m.

   CREDIT (New York) _ Credit market developments: The long bond
was up 11/32 at midday. By Robert Hurtado.

   COMPANIES (Undated) _ Company news.

   KEYRATES (Undated) _ Key interest rate numbers.

   BIZGLANCE (Undated) _ Major financial stories at a glance.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; FOR FRIDAY AMs  &LR;

   &UR; Financial stories in sight at this hour from The New York Times
News Service for newspapers of FRIDAY, June 12. &LR;

   For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other financial stories from our
partners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,
Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,
Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,
San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.

   ASIA-GLOOM (Hong Kong) _ That the Asian financial crisis is
mutating into the Asian recession is not a surprise. But the depth
of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and the gloom that
suffuses the region have surprised even the pessimists. By Mark
Landler.

   GM-STRIKE (Detroit) _ General Motors strike developments. By
Keith Bradsher.

   UNITED-TV-GUIDE (Undated) _ United Video Satellite Group, which
is owned by two subsidiaries of Tele-Communications Inc., buys TV
Guide magazine and other publications from the News Corp.n for $2
billion in cash and stock. News Corp. will obtain a 40 percent
stake in United Video, which supplies television listing services
to cable providers and satellite dish owners. The units of
Tele-Communications Inc., TCI Ventures Group and Liberty Media,
will own 44 percent. The sale creates one big provider of
television listings through TV Guide and United Video's Preview
Networks. By Geraldine Fabrikant.

   EMPLOYEE-STOCK (Undated) _ Accounting rulemakers have given
preliminary approval to a change that may cause some companies to
reduce the scope of their employee stock-purchase programs.

   MARKETPLACE (Undated) _ Th daily Marketplace column.

   NATSEMI-EARNINGS (Undated) _ National Semiconductor will report
earnings. By Lawrence M. Fisher.

   MARKET (New York) _ Stock market developments: The Dow Jones
Industrial Average was down 100 points at 1:30 p.m.

   CREDIT (New York) _ Credit market developments: The long bond
was up 11/32 at midday. By Robert Hurtado.

   COMPANIES (Undated) _ Company news.

   KEYRATES (Undated) _ Key interest rate numbers.

   BIZGLANCE (Undated) _ Major financial stories at a glance.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0114 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:12 ',
			header: '
A4706 &Cx1f; ttj-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GAY-YOUTH-HNS &LR;      06-11 0533
',
			slug: ' BC-GAY-YOUTH-HNS ',
			headline: '
SAN FRANCISCO PLANS HIV CENTER FOR YOUNG PEOPLE 
',
			trailer: '
   SAN FRANCISCO _ With young people accounting for a
disproportionate amount of new HIV infections, San Francisco is
preparing to open its first health clinic targeted at gay
adolescents and young adults.

   The clinic, called Dimensions, is a collaboration of the city's
Department of Public Health and several nonprofit agencies. It will
open July 2, offering medical and mental health services to a
population overlooked by mainstream health agencies.

   Similar clinics operate in Boston, Los Angeles and New York.

   The San Francisco center will offer prevention and testing for
the human immunodeficiency virus, which causes AIDS. Half of all
new HIV infections today occur in people under 25. But they account
for only 17 percent of those getting tested, said Steven Tierney,
executive director of Health Initiatives for Youth, a nonprofit
organization that helped develop the clinic.

   ``They don't get tested because they're not hooked up to health
care or have never had good experiences'' with health care, Tierney
said.

   Kevin Gogin, head of gay and lesbian youth support services for
the San Francisco schools, said the clinic would be a vital for gay
youths with nowhere else to turn.

   ``A lot of family physicians are not going to be comfortable or
knowledgeable about some of the issues these young people will be
bringing in,'' he said.

   But the health concerns of gay youths go beyond AIDS prevention.
Mainstream agencies tend to focus on AIDS and overlook other health
needs of gay adolescents and young adults, health professionals at
the Dimensions clinic said.

   Tierney said estimates of the number of gay, lesbian, bisexual
and transgender youths in San Francisco range from 6,000 to 10,000.
The city has a population of more than 720,000.

   The idea for the clinic resulted from a survey last summer of
200 gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people ages 12 to 25.

   Conducted by the Health Initiatives for Youth, the survey found
that access to health care, therapy and substance-abuse treatment
were leading concerns for gay adolescents and young adults.

   Many of them are not in the habit of seeking health care or
counseling. Those who do have often had negative experiences.

   ``Doctors look at them, like, `there's nothing wrong with you.
Lesbians don't get sick. Lesbians don't get AIDS,'' said Danielle
Stringer-Shakur, who runs a program for young women at Lavender
Youth Recreation and Information Center, another nonprofit
organization involved in the clinic.

   Cost also is a factor in seeking health care. Even those who are
covered under a family medical plan may be afraid to seek certain
types of treatment, said Alfonso Diaz, HIV program coordinator at
Lavender.

   Diaz also said some children may be afraid their parents would
find out about the HIV tests.

   Dimensions officials said no one would be turned away for lack
of money. The staffing and space for the clinic will be donated by
the various city and nonprofit agencies involved.
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients.)  
 By JULIE CHAO  
 c.1998 San Francisco Examiner  

',
			paragraphs: '
   SAN FRANCISCO _ With young people accounting for a
disproportionate amount of new HIV infections, San Francisco is
preparing to open its first health clinic targeted at gay
adolescents and young adults.

   The clinic, called Dimensions, is a collaboration of the city's
Department of Public Health and several nonprofit agencies. It will
open July 2, offering medical and mental health services to a
population overlooked by mainstream health agencies.

   Similar clinics operate in Boston, Los Angeles and New York.

   The San Francisco center will offer prevention and testing for
the human immunodeficiency virus, which causes AIDS. Half of all
new HIV infections today occur in people under 25. But they account
for only 17 percent of those getting tested, said Steven Tierney,
executive director of Health Initiatives for Youth, a nonprofit
organization that helped develop the clinic.

   ``They don't get tested because they're not hooked up to health
care or have never had good experiences'' with health care, Tierney
said.

   Kevin Gogin, head of gay and lesbian youth support services for
the San Francisco schools, said the clinic would be a vital for gay
youths with nowhere else to turn.

   ``A lot of family physicians are not going to be comfortable or
knowledgeable about some of the issues these young people will be
bringing in,'' he said.

   But the health concerns of gay youths go beyond AIDS prevention.
Mainstream agencies tend to focus on AIDS and overlook other health
needs of gay adolescents and young adults, health professionals at
the Dimensions clinic said.

   Tierney said estimates of the number of gay, lesbian, bisexual
and transgender youths in San Francisco range from 6,000 to 10,000.
The city has a population of more than 720,000.

   The idea for the clinic resulted from a survey last summer of
200 gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people ages 12 to 25.

   Conducted by the Health Initiatives for Youth, the survey found
that access to health care, therapy and substance-abuse treatment
were leading concerns for gay adolescents and young adults.

   Many of them are not in the habit of seeking health care or
counseling. Those who do have often had negative experiences.

   ``Doctors look at them, like, `there's nothing wrong with you.
Lesbians don't get sick. Lesbians don't get AIDS,'' said Danielle
Stringer-Shakur, who runs a program for young women at Lavender
Youth Recreation and Information Center, another nonprofit
organization involved in the clinic.

   Cost also is a factor in seeking health care. Even those who are
covered under a family medical plan may be afraid to seek certain
types of treatment, said Alfonso Diaz, HIV program coordinator at
Lavender.

   Diaz also said some children may be afraid their parents would
find out about the HIV tests.

   Dimensions officials said no one would be turned away for lack
of money. The staffing and space for the clinic will be donated by
the various city and nonprofit agencies involved.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0115 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:18 ',
			header: '
A4711 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-COMPUTERS-COLUMN-BOS &LR;      06-11 0767
',
			slug: ' BC-COMPUTERS-COLUMN-BOS ',
			headline: '
THE LITTLE BOX THAT CAN SAVE A BIG BUNDLE
',
			trailer: '
   Regular readers know that I like to keep my computer busy. Even
when I'm not working on it, the machine is often toiling away on
its own, indexing the data on my hard drives or downloading some
free software.

   Still, with the coming of summer, I find myself punching the Off
switch more frequently than usual. It's the time of year for
sudden, violent storms, with lightning bolts that can toast
microcircuitry into pumpernickel.

   I love lightning; computers hate it. A near-direct hit 13 years
ago wrecked the first computer I ever owned. Yes, I was using a
surge suppressor. Good thing too _ the surge-box maker picked up
the $600 repair tab.

   That's why you install one of these devices _ insurance. Surge
suppressors give your computer an extra measure of protection from
electrical unpleasantness. And if they don't work, you won't have
to pay for the damage to your hardware.

   A host of electric power glitches can afflict computers.
Lightning strikes, of course, but also harmonic power-line noise
from electric motors. That can alter the standard 60-hertz
frequency that your computer is designed for. There are power sags
caused by other devices starting up _ if your lights flicker when
the fridge starts up, you know what I mean. There are brownouts _
longer-lasting power sags that may occur on hot summer days when
electric demand is greater than the utility can supply. And of
course the power can die altogether.

   Still, don't go getting paranoid. Phil Hester, chief technology
officer for IBM Corp.'s PC Division, tells me that computers are
tough enough for run-of-the-mill electrical glitches. ``All of the
computers and television equipment and stuff like that ... has some
sort of surge protection device built into it,'' said Hester.

   Even so, Hester favors some extra protection. For most people,
that means a standard surge suppressor that filters the electricity
going to your computer.

   But be sure you're using it properly. That means that every
single electrical device connected to your computer should be
hooked up to the suppressor. Skip just one of them _ the printer,
say _ and a surge can pass through it and roast your machine. Your
phone line can carry surges right into your modem. Nowadays, surge
boxes nearly always include phone line protection. Use it. And if
your surge protector isn't properly grounded, it's no better than
an extension cord. So plug into a proper three-prong outlet. The
better surge suppressors will even have an indicator light to tell
you if they're grounded.

   A good suppressor should have been tested by Underwriters
Laboratories to let through no more than about 300 volts when it's
hit by a 6,000-volt power spike. This is called the UL 1449 rating
_ be sure yours meets this standard. Of course you should buy a
suppressor with a lifetime insurance policy to pay for damages to
your computer. But that doesn't mean the device itself will last a
lifetime. Many surge suppressors use circuitry that loses its
protective power after a few years. It makes sense to buy new every
half-decade or so.

   Surge boxes won't help during a brownout or blackout. For that,
you need an uninterruptible power supply. Once only used in
businesses, they've gotten cheap enough to consider for the home.

   American Power Conversion of West Kingston, R.I., lent me their
BackUPS Office product for a tryout. It looks like an overgrown
surge suppressor with six outlets and a heavy lead-acid battery
inside, but it gets the job done. I pulled the plug on my home PC
by way of a test. The battery drove the computer with two hard
drives, and a monitor and my Iomega Zip drive, for 12 minutes
before it gave up the ghost. That was plenty of time to do a safe
shutdown. The BackUPS Office sells for around $125. And there are
more expensive battery backup devices that come with software
that'll automatically shut down your machine during a blackout.

   But IBM's Hester warns that even the best electrical protection
has its limits. ``If you have a lightning strike within 100 feet of
your house, it's like having a small stick of dynamite go off
inside the electronic devices in your house,'' he said. ``None of
this stuff is ever going to survive a direct strike.'' Which is why
I'll keep on shutting down my machine whenever the skies begin to
grumble.

   &UR; ufauthor &LR;

   You can send electronic mail to Hiawatha Bray at
bray(AT)globe.com
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By HIAWATHA BRAY 
c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   Regular readers know that I like to keep my computer busy. Even
when I'm not working on it, the machine is often toiling away on
its own, indexing the data on my hard drives or downloading some
free software.

   Still, with the coming of summer, I find myself punching the Off
switch more frequently than usual. It's the time of year for
sudden, violent storms, with lightning bolts that can toast
microcircuitry into pumpernickel.

   I love lightning; computers hate it. A near-direct hit 13 years
ago wrecked the first computer I ever owned. Yes, I was using a
surge suppressor. Good thing too _ the surge-box maker picked up
the $600 repair tab.

   That's why you install one of these devices _ insurance. Surge
suppressors give your computer an extra measure of protection from
electrical unpleasantness. And if they don't work, you won't have
to pay for the damage to your hardware.

   A host of electric power glitches can afflict computers.
Lightning strikes, of course, but also harmonic power-line noise
from electric motors. That can alter the standard 60-hertz
frequency that your computer is designed for. There are power sags
caused by other devices starting up _ if your lights flicker when
the fridge starts up, you know what I mean. There are brownouts _
longer-lasting power sags that may occur on hot summer days when
electric demand is greater than the utility can supply. And of
course the power can die altogether.

   Still, don't go getting paranoid. Phil Hester, chief technology
officer for IBM Corp.'s PC Division, tells me that computers are
tough enough for run-of-the-mill electrical glitches. ``All of the
computers and television equipment and stuff like that ... has some
sort of surge protection device built into it,'' said Hester.

   Even so, Hester favors some extra protection. For most people,
that means a standard surge suppressor that filters the electricity
going to your computer.

   But be sure you're using it properly. That means that every
single electrical device connected to your computer should be
hooked up to the suppressor. Skip just one of them _ the printer,
say _ and a surge can pass through it and roast your machine. Your
phone line can carry surges right into your modem. Nowadays, surge
boxes nearly always include phone line protection. Use it. And if
your surge protector isn't properly grounded, it's no better than
an extension cord. So plug into a proper three-prong outlet. The
better surge suppressors will even have an indicator light to tell
you if they're grounded.

   A good suppressor should have been tested by Underwriters
Laboratories to let through no more than about 300 volts when it's
hit by a 6,000-volt power spike. This is called the UL 1449 rating
_ be sure yours meets this standard. Of course you should buy a
suppressor with a lifetime insurance policy to pay for damages to
your computer. But that doesn't mean the device itself will last a
lifetime. Many surge suppressors use circuitry that loses its
protective power after a few years. It makes sense to buy new every
half-decade or so.

   Surge boxes won't help during a brownout or blackout. For that,
you need an uninterruptible power supply. Once only used in
businesses, they've gotten cheap enough to consider for the home.

   American Power Conversion of West Kingston, R.I., lent me their
BackUPS Office product for a tryout. It looks like an overgrown
surge suppressor with six outlets and a heavy lead-acid battery
inside, but it gets the job done. I pulled the plug on my home PC
by way of a test. The battery drove the computer with two hard
drives, and a monitor and my Iomega Zip drive, for 12 minutes
before it gave up the ghost. That was plenty of time to do a safe
shutdown. The BackUPS Office sells for around $125. And there are
more expensive battery backup devices that come with software
that'll automatically shut down your machine during a blackout.

   But IBM's Hester warns that even the best electrical protection
has its limits. ``If you have a lightning strike within 100 feet of
your house, it's like having a small stick of dynamite go off
inside the electronic devices in your house,'' he said. ``None of
this stuff is ever going to survive a direct strike.'' Which is why
I'll keep on shutting down my machine whenever the skies begin to
grumble.

   &UR; ufauthor &LR;

   You can send electronic mail to Hiawatha Bray at
bray(AT)globe.com
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0116 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:23 ',
			header: '
A4716 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NIGERIA-ABACHA-BOS &LR;      06-11 0496
',
			slug: ' BC-NIGERIA-ABACHA-BOS ',
			headline: '
A MIXED BUT HOPEFUL REACTION GREETS ABACHA'S DEATH
',
			trailer: '
   The death Monday of the Nigerian strongman, General Sani Abacha
saddened some Nigerians in Boston and sparked a mix of anxiety and
hope in others.

   To Peter Opara, a one-time government official who lives in
Boston, Abacha's death brought on a sense of sadness for the
passing of a national figure. At the same time it sparked hope
among pro-democracy leaders such as Alhaji Muhammed Ighile, leader
of the Boston-area Nigerian Democratic Alliance.

   ``It's a pity,'' Opara, now a financial consultant, said. ``The
feeling, generally, will be a sense of loss despite the brouhaha
over the guy.''

   Abacha, 54, whose policies of imprisoning and executing
dissidents earned his government international isolation as well as
the wrath of human rights organizations.

   But Opara said he admired Abacha's strong hand and quickness in
rooting out corruption in the government he took over after seizing
power in 1993. Abacha, who had promised a long-awaited return to
civilian rule and scheduled elections for August, was Opara's first
choice as ruler of Africa's most populous nation.

   ``My preference for Abacha's leadership was based on the
discipline he brings to Nigeria's social and economic agenda,''
Opara said.

   Ighile, a counselor of mentally retarded adults, gained a sense
of hope when he got a call from a friend in Kano, Abacha's hometown
and burial place, announcing the death of a man who was considered
Africa's most notorious tyrant.

   ``He is the first leader to die in office that people are
rejoicing about his death,'' Ighile said. ``People are happy.''

   Ighile said the death brings prospects for change that can
reverse Nigeria's status as international pariah.

   The new head of state, General Abdulsalam Abubaker, inherits
leadership of a country of 120 million people whose recent history
is laden with bloody clashes between the military government and
its people.

   Abacha was the most visible member in a long line of uniformed
rulers since the military overthrew the civilian government in
1983. He came to power in a coup after General Ibrahim Babangida
annulled June 1993 elections.

   ``Abacha's passing is an opportunity for the military to restore
their damaged image and to organize their withdrawal from
government,'' said Chief Anthony Enahoro, leader of the National
Democratic Coalition, a vocal opposition group.

   Enahoro himself had been detained or without trial by Abacha
from August to December of 1994. He lives in exile in Virginia.

   He said he was disappointed by an announcement Tuesday night by
Abubakar, the new leader of Nigeria, that he hoped to pick up where
Abacha left off.

   ``Abubaker said he would carry on the program Abacha laid
down,'' Enahoro said. ``That would be a tragedy for the country.''
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By ZACHARY R. DOWDY  
 c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   The death Monday of the Nigerian strongman, General Sani Abacha
saddened some Nigerians in Boston and sparked a mix of anxiety and
hope in others.

   To Peter Opara, a one-time government official who lives in
Boston, Abacha's death brought on a sense of sadness for the
passing of a national figure. At the same time it sparked hope
among pro-democracy leaders such as Alhaji Muhammed Ighile, leader
of the Boston-area Nigerian Democratic Alliance.

   ``It's a pity,'' Opara, now a financial consultant, said. ``The
feeling, generally, will be a sense of loss despite the brouhaha
over the guy.''

   Abacha, 54, whose policies of imprisoning and executing
dissidents earned his government international isolation as well as
the wrath of human rights organizations.

   But Opara said he admired Abacha's strong hand and quickness in
rooting out corruption in the government he took over after seizing
power in 1993. Abacha, who had promised a long-awaited return to
civilian rule and scheduled elections for August, was Opara's first
choice as ruler of Africa's most populous nation.

   ``My preference for Abacha's leadership was based on the
discipline he brings to Nigeria's social and economic agenda,''
Opara said.

   Ighile, a counselor of mentally retarded adults, gained a sense
of hope when he got a call from a friend in Kano, Abacha's hometown
and burial place, announcing the death of a man who was considered
Africa's most notorious tyrant.

   ``He is the first leader to die in office that people are
rejoicing about his death,'' Ighile said. ``People are happy.''

   Ighile said the death brings prospects for change that can
reverse Nigeria's status as international pariah.

   The new head of state, General Abdulsalam Abubaker, inherits
leadership of a country of 120 million people whose recent history
is laden with bloody clashes between the military government and
its people.

   Abacha was the most visible member in a long line of uniformed
rulers since the military overthrew the civilian government in
1983. He came to power in a coup after General Ibrahim Babangida
annulled June 1993 elections.

   ``Abacha's passing is an opportunity for the military to restore
their damaged image and to organize their withdrawal from
government,'' said Chief Anthony Enahoro, leader of the National
Democratic Coalition, a vocal opposition group.

   Enahoro himself had been detained or without trial by Abacha
from August to December of 1994. He lives in exile in Virginia.

   He said he was disappointed by an announcement Tuesday night by
Abubakar, the new leader of Nigeria, that he hoped to pick up where
Abacha left off.

   ``Abubaker said he would carry on the program Abacha laid
down,'' Enahoro said. ``That would be a tragedy for the country.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0117 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:32 ',
			header: '
A4722 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SCIENCE-NYT-BUDGET &LR;      06-11 0143
',
			slug: ' BC-SCIENCE-NYT-BUDGET ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Science and health stories in sight at this hour from The New
York Times News Service for  &UR; FRIDAY &LR; , June 12.

   For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other science stories from our
partners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,
Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,
Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,
San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.

   SCI-BRAIN-EVOLUTION (Undated) _ A new computer model shows that
anthropologists have substantially overestimated the cranial
capacity of the homo sapien forerunner Australopithecus and may
have done so for other types of early man. The finding could force
a revision of the theories of brain evolution. By Nicholas Wade.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Science and health stories in sight at this hour from The New
York Times News Service for  &UR; FRIDAY &LR; , June 12.

   For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other science stories from our
partners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,
Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,
Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,
San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.

   SCI-BRAIN-EVOLUTION (Undated) _ A new computer model shows that
anthropologists have substantially overestimated the cranial
capacity of the homo sapien forerunner Australopithecus and may
have done so for other types of early man. The finding could force
a revision of the theories of brain evolution. By Nicholas Wade.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0118 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:36 ',
			header: '
A4732 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-OFFSHORE-OIL-HNS &LR;      06-11 0398
',
			slug: ' BC-OFFSHORE-OIL-HNS ',
			headline: '
CLINTON EXPECTED TO EXTEND MORATORIUM ON OFFSHORE OIL DEVELOPMENT 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ President Clinton is expected to extend a
moratorium on offshore oil development off the California coast
beyond the expiration of the existing moratorium in 2000, Sen.
Barbara Boxer said Thursday

   ``This is definitely something that he wants to do,'' Boxer told
Hearst Newspapers. ``The exact form it will take, I can't tell you.
But I know that the president is going to do something and do
something good.''

   White House officials said Clinton would announce his decision
Friday when he addresses the two-day National Ocean Conference
convened in Monterey, Calif.

   Boxer, D-Calif., said White House officials were presenting
Clinton with a range of options for extending the moratorium, from
several years to a lengthy period of time. President Bush imposed a
10-year moratorium in 1990.

   White House Press Secretary Mike McCurry said the president
would reach a decision later Thursday on whether to extend the
moratorium.

   ``We're still working on that,'' McCurry said. ``No decision has
been made.''

   Boxer said three conversations with Clinton, including one
earlier this week, persuaded her that the president would extend
the moratorium.

   ``I definitely know that the president is excited about the
announcement,'' she said.

   Boxer said that she would continue to press her effort to win
congressional passage of the so-called Coastal States Protection
Act designed to extend state moratoriums on development out to
federally-controlled offshore waters.

   Currently, drilling is allowed off the coast from Santa Barbara
and Orange counties in leases that were already in place when
Wilson banned drilling in state waters in 1994. State jurisdiction
extends for three miles offshore while federal jurisdiction extends
200 miles.

   Boxer said that she had written California Gov. Pete Wilson, a
Republican, to enlist his support to help persuade the GOP-led U.S.
Senate to act on the measure.

   Wilson has called for a permanent ban on offshore oil
development.

   Adopting the legislation and having it signed into law ``would
be far more powerful than any directive by a president,'' Boxer
said. ``Congress can overturn a directive.''
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients.)  
 By STEWART M. POWELL  
 c.1998 Hearst Newspapers  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ President Clinton is expected to extend a
moratorium on offshore oil development off the California coast
beyond the expiration of the existing moratorium in 2000, Sen.
Barbara Boxer said Thursday

   ``This is definitely something that he wants to do,'' Boxer told
Hearst Newspapers. ``The exact form it will take, I can't tell you.
But I know that the president is going to do something and do
something good.''

   White House officials said Clinton would announce his decision
Friday when he addresses the two-day National Ocean Conference
convened in Monterey, Calif.

   Boxer, D-Calif., said White House officials were presenting
Clinton with a range of options for extending the moratorium, from
several years to a lengthy period of time. President Bush imposed a
10-year moratorium in 1990.

   White House Press Secretary Mike McCurry said the president
would reach a decision later Thursday on whether to extend the
moratorium.

   ``We're still working on that,'' McCurry said. ``No decision has
been made.''

   Boxer said three conversations with Clinton, including one
earlier this week, persuaded her that the president would extend
the moratorium.

   ``I definitely know that the president is excited about the
announcement,'' she said.

   Boxer said that she would continue to press her effort to win
congressional passage of the so-called Coastal States Protection
Act designed to extend state moratoriums on development out to
federally-controlled offshore waters.

   Currently, drilling is allowed off the coast from Santa Barbara
and Orange counties in leases that were already in place when
Wilson banned drilling in state waters in 1994. State jurisdiction
extends for three miles offshore while federal jurisdiction extends
200 miles.

   Boxer said that she had written California Gov. Pete Wilson, a
Republican, to enlist his support to help persuade the GOP-led U.S.
Senate to act on the measure.

   Wilson has called for a permanent ban on offshore oil
development.

   Adopting the legislation and having it signed into law ``would
be far more powerful than any directive by a president,'' Boxer
said. ``Congress can overturn a directive.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0119 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:41 ',
			header: '
A4738 &Cx1f; ttj-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CHECCHI-FUTURE-HNS &LR;      06-11 0918
',
			slug: ' BC-CHECCHI-FUTURE-HNS ',
			headline: '
DESPITE LOSS AT THE POLLS, CHECCHI PLANS ACTIVIST ROLE 
',
			trailer: '
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. _ Tanned, rested and unrepentant, Al
Checchi has taken his resounding failure in California's
gubernatorial primary as a sign that the state needs more of him.

   Speaking during an interview Wednesday, eight days after his
defeat, Checchi sounded as if he wanted to carve out a role as a
sort of shadow governor, a behind-the-scenes political fixer, a
thorn in the side of the next governor.

   Checchi, the former co-chairman of Northwest Airlines, spent
nearly $40 million for the Democratic nomination, only to lose
resoundingly to Lt. Gov. Gray Davis in the most expensive state
race in history.

   Repudiated for harshly criticizing his opponents, Checchi ended
the campaign with polls showing more people disliking him than
thanking him.

   No matter. That's ancient history to Checchi. If he doesn't take
a job as a university president somewhere, run another Fortune 500
company or write a memoir of his experience, this is how Checchi
sees things playing out come January:

   ``Two things could happen,'' Checchi said, as the early
afternoon sun pierced the inner courtyard of his 19-room villa
during an hourlong interview.

   ``Gray's elected governor, at which point I am all over him to
do the things I talked about in my book. ... Or I will push it with
our Legislature or I will push it with thinking editorial writers
and columnists, and basically say, `Guys, this is what's going on.
You come and I'll take you there.'''

   Checchi is not stopping to get angry. He's not second-guessing
too much, at least publicly. He refuses to apologize for his
negative campaign, insisting as he has many times before that he
got hit just as hard and ``got outspent in the home stretch.''

   Spending the money, he said, meant nothing to him because he
produced a strategic plan for California _ the 90-page ``Checchi
Plan.'' Checchi and his wife, Kathryn, are credited with energizing
the Hispanic community with television advertising and an
absentee-ballot program.

   Checchi has a wooden box that overflows with 200 messages from
friends _ notes of encouragement that he was supposed to read when
things got low during the campaign. He has yet to look at them, but
he may get to it next week.

   After the election, Checchi took calls from friends, including
Vice President Al Gore. He threw a party at the mansion for friends
and his campaign staff of 35, giving what he thought to be ``the
best speech of the campaign.''

   He attended his daughter's high school graduation and celebrated
his 50th birthday on Saturday.

   ``No anger. No letdown,'' Checchi said. ``First of all, I knew I
was going to lose, and probably knew six weeks before. I felt good
about what I'd done.''

   &QL; 

   &QL;

   Checchi said he offered his assistance to Davis during the
upcoming campaign. Davis faces Attorney General Dan Lungren, the
Republican candidate for governor.

   Asked if he would run again, Checchi said maybe, if the time is
right. He said his failure came because he was ``saying things the
public did not want to hear. ... In the end, sitting here, I
believe Gray was right in the short term. People's attitude is
we're doing all right now.''

   ``We have a (huge) network of people who we have met throughout
the state,'' Checchi said, ``people saying, `You've got to do this
again. You're right and people will come to realize that you're
right.' And my attitude is, I may do it again, but only if the
circumstances really change and people really get it.''

   Until then, Checchi said, he plans to continue his role as
fixer. He was a corporate fixer for Marriott Corp., Disney and
Northwest Airlines.

   Checchi acknowledged certain things ``perhaps'' should not have
occurred in his campaign. Perhaps he shouldn't have made a threat
that he would spend $10 million on an ad campaign against any other
candidate who attacked him personally. Perhaps he should have taken
contributions, to allow people to take stock in his campaign.

   But certainly Rep. Jane Harman's entrance into the Democratic
race hurt him, he said, as did the attack ads from Davis and the
timing of certain polls. If only the Field Polls, which showed
Harman and Davis ahead, had been taken a week earlier, Checchi
might have been leading, and dubbed a winner.

   There also has been widespread wonderment over why his
commercials failed to show his personable side, like the
biographical ad showing him in a turtleneck sitting on his couch,
just talking. The commercial ran only briefly.

   ``All I could do was put it out there,'' Checchi said. ``We
could go back and re-game and say, `Gee, if you had sat on a couch
and worn a turtleneck.' I just don't think it would have changed
the outcome.''

   It wasn't until the final two weeks of the campaign that the
message got out, Checchi said. Reporters started looking at his
programs, he said, getting jazzed about his tour in a rented school
bus.

   ``I had so many reporters come up and say, `You should have done
this 18 months ago,''' Checchi said. ``I said, `I have been doing
this for 18 months, you just weren't there.' I was speaking and
getting mobbed, with people clawing at me and asking me to sign
their clothes, sign this and that. Did you ever see that?''
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients.)  
 By ROBERT SALLADAY  
 c.1998 San Francisco Examiner  

',
			paragraphs: '
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. _ Tanned, rested and unrepentant, Al
Checchi has taken his resounding failure in California's
gubernatorial primary as a sign that the state needs more of him.

   Speaking during an interview Wednesday, eight days after his
defeat, Checchi sounded as if he wanted to carve out a role as a
sort of shadow governor, a behind-the-scenes political fixer, a
thorn in the side of the next governor.

   Checchi, the former co-chairman of Northwest Airlines, spent
nearly $40 million for the Democratic nomination, only to lose
resoundingly to Lt. Gov. Gray Davis in the most expensive state
race in history.

   Repudiated for harshly criticizing his opponents, Checchi ended
the campaign with polls showing more people disliking him than
thanking him.

   No matter. That's ancient history to Checchi. If he doesn't take
a job as a university president somewhere, run another Fortune 500
company or write a memoir of his experience, this is how Checchi
sees things playing out come January:

   ``Two things could happen,'' Checchi said, as the early
afternoon sun pierced the inner courtyard of his 19-room villa
during an hourlong interview.

   ``Gray's elected governor, at which point I am all over him to
do the things I talked about in my book. ... Or I will push it with
our Legislature or I will push it with thinking editorial writers
and columnists, and basically say, `Guys, this is what's going on.
You come and I'll take you there.'''

   Checchi is not stopping to get angry. He's not second-guessing
too much, at least publicly. He refuses to apologize for his
negative campaign, insisting as he has many times before that he
got hit just as hard and ``got outspent in the home stretch.''

   Spending the money, he said, meant nothing to him because he
produced a strategic plan for California _ the 90-page ``Checchi
Plan.'' Checchi and his wife, Kathryn, are credited with energizing
the Hispanic community with television advertising and an
absentee-ballot program.

   Checchi has a wooden box that overflows with 200 messages from
friends _ notes of encouragement that he was supposed to read when
things got low during the campaign. He has yet to look at them, but
he may get to it next week.

   After the election, Checchi took calls from friends, including
Vice President Al Gore. He threw a party at the mansion for friends
and his campaign staff of 35, giving what he thought to be ``the
best speech of the campaign.''

   He attended his daughter's high school graduation and celebrated
his 50th birthday on Saturday.

   ``No anger. No letdown,'' Checchi said. ``First of all, I knew I
was going to lose, and probably knew six weeks before. I felt good
about what I'd done.''

   &QL; 

   &QL;

   Checchi said he offered his assistance to Davis during the
upcoming campaign. Davis faces Attorney General Dan Lungren, the
Republican candidate for governor.

   Asked if he would run again, Checchi said maybe, if the time is
right. He said his failure came because he was ``saying things the
public did not want to hear. ... In the end, sitting here, I
believe Gray was right in the short term. People's attitude is
we're doing all right now.''

   ``We have a (huge) network of people who we have met throughout
the state,'' Checchi said, ``people saying, `You've got to do this
again. You're right and people will come to realize that you're
right.' And my attitude is, I may do it again, but only if the
circumstances really change and people really get it.''

   Until then, Checchi said, he plans to continue his role as
fixer. He was a corporate fixer for Marriott Corp., Disney and
Northwest Airlines.

   Checchi acknowledged certain things ``perhaps'' should not have
occurred in his campaign. Perhaps he shouldn't have made a threat
that he would spend $10 million on an ad campaign against any other
candidate who attacked him personally. Perhaps he should have taken
contributions, to allow people to take stock in his campaign.

   But certainly Rep. Jane Harman's entrance into the Democratic
race hurt him, he said, as did the attack ads from Davis and the
timing of certain polls. If only the Field Polls, which showed
Harman and Davis ahead, had been taken a week earlier, Checchi
might have been leading, and dubbed a winner.

   There also has been widespread wonderment over why his
commercials failed to show his personable side, like the
biographical ad showing him in a turtleneck sitting on his couch,
just talking. The commercial ran only briefly.

   ``All I could do was put it out there,'' Checchi said. ``We
could go back and re-game and say, `Gee, if you had sat on a couch
and worn a turtleneck.' I just don't think it would have changed
the outcome.''

   It wasn't until the final two weeks of the campaign that the
message got out, Checchi said. Reporters started looking at his
programs, he said, getting jazzed about his tour in a rented school
bus.

   ``I had so many reporters come up and say, `You should have done
this 18 months ago,''' Checchi said. ``I said, `I have been doing
this for 18 months, you just weren't there.' I was speaking and
getting mobbed, with people clawing at me and asking me to sign
their clothes, sign this and that. Did you ever see that?''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0120 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:43 ',
			header: '
A4743 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-RUSSIA-JOURNALIST-BOS     06-11 0702
',
			slug: ' BC-RUSSIA-JOURNALIST-BOS ',
			headline: '
ANOTHER MUCKRAKING JOURNALIST SLAIN IN RUSSIA
',
			trailer: '
   MOSCOW _ First came the mysterious phone call to Larisa Yudina's
apartment, with an offer to meet and pass on documents detailing
illicit financial dealings of senior officials in the southern
Russian republic of Kalmykia.

   It was an offer Yudina could not refuse. An investigative
journalist and local newspaper editor, she had published numerous
exposes of official corruption, vote-rigging, and other wrongdoing
in Kalmykia, and had long ago earned the wrath of the Caspian Sea
region's president by continuing to publish her paper, Sovietskaya
Kalmykia.

   Despite numerous efforts by authorities to shut it down, Yudina
had come to symbolize the cause of independent journalists in
Russia's regions, where powerful governors do not hesitate to use
strong-arm tactics to quash dissent. Now, it appears Yudina has
become a martyr for that cause.

   On Sunday night, a car pulled up outside her apartment in
Kalmykia's capital, Elista. Yudina went out in her slippers for
what she assumed would be a short talk. It was the last time her
friends and family saw her.

   Yudina, 53, was found dead in a pond on the outskirts of Elista
on Monday with a fractured skull and multiple stab wounds on her
body. Moscow authorities are calling the crime a political murder.

   The officials, including Russia's top police official, Interior
Minister Sergei Stepashin, have stopped just short of accusing
Kalmykia's president, Kirsan Ilyumzhinov, of involvement in the
murder. He is a wealthy businessman who makes no secret of the fact
that he controls nearly all his republic's economic activity. He
calls himself ``the president of Kalmykia Corp.'' and has been the
target of many of Yudina's investigations into corruption.

   ``There is no doubt about the fact that this was a contract
murder of a political nature,'' Stepashin said in Moscow Wednesday.
He said he had sent a team of crack investigators to get to the
bottom of the case.

   Russian television reported from Kalmykia that police there had
arrested a former aide to Ilyumzhinov on murder charges. But
Kalmykia's Interior Ministry, which is nominally subordinate to
Stepashin but in reality answers only to Ilyumzhinov, has already
ruled out a political motive in Yudina's death, a spokesman said
Wednesday.

   ``This is about authorities who are bad,'' said federal
legislator Yury Schekochikin, a member of the liberal Yabloko party
who joined scores of mourners at Yudina's funeral in Elista
Wednesday.

   Yudina was the third journalist murdered in Russia this year,
according to the Glasnost Defense Foundation, a Moscow-based
watchdog on press freedoms. The foundation has reported dozens of
beatings and threats against journalists who had published reports
critical of regional leaders.

   Recently, a newspaper in the Ural Mountains region of
Bashkortostan was closed down because it was critical of the
republic's president, Murtaza Rakhimov. Local papers that have
criticized the governor of Russia's Far East, Yevgeny Nazdratenko,
have been shut down, their reporters and editors harassed and
beaten. And few Moscow journalists dare to criticize the city's
powerful mayor, Yury Luzhkov.

   ``If you're a journalist and you mess with the local elite, you
stand a good chance of getting beaten up or even killed,'' said
Leonid Bershidsky, a Moscow-based commentator on the Russian media.

   Yudina's paper has alleged on numerous occasions that
Ilyumzhinov misused government credit and forced local businesses
to contribute to his private fund. Ilyumzhinov retaliated by
shutting down her offices and ordered local publishers not to print
the paper.

   Undeterred, Yudina had the paper printed in neighboring regions
and drove it 200 miles across the southern Russian steppe to
Elista.

   ``We can print as much as fits in a Zhiguli,'' Yudina quipped in
an interview with the Globe last September. At the time, she vowed
to continue to publish. ``We say what's going on, and they don't
like it. But at least they aren't killing us off yet.''
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By DAVID FILIPOV  
 c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   MOSCOW _ First came the mysterious phone call to Larisa Yudina's
apartment, with an offer to meet and pass on documents detailing
illicit financial dealings of senior officials in the southern
Russian republic of Kalmykia.

   It was an offer Yudina could not refuse. An investigative
journalist and local newspaper editor, she had published numerous
exposes of official corruption, vote-rigging, and other wrongdoing
in Kalmykia, and had long ago earned the wrath of the Caspian Sea
region's president by continuing to publish her paper, Sovietskaya
Kalmykia.

   Despite numerous efforts by authorities to shut it down, Yudina
had come to symbolize the cause of independent journalists in
Russia's regions, where powerful governors do not hesitate to use
strong-arm tactics to quash dissent. Now, it appears Yudina has
become a martyr for that cause.

   On Sunday night, a car pulled up outside her apartment in
Kalmykia's capital, Elista. Yudina went out in her slippers for
what she assumed would be a short talk. It was the last time her
friends and family saw her.

   Yudina, 53, was found dead in a pond on the outskirts of Elista
on Monday with a fractured skull and multiple stab wounds on her
body. Moscow authorities are calling the crime a political murder.

   The officials, including Russia's top police official, Interior
Minister Sergei Stepashin, have stopped just short of accusing
Kalmykia's president, Kirsan Ilyumzhinov, of involvement in the
murder. He is a wealthy businessman who makes no secret of the fact
that he controls nearly all his republic's economic activity. He
calls himself ``the president of Kalmykia Corp.'' and has been the
target of many of Yudina's investigations into corruption.

   ``There is no doubt about the fact that this was a contract
murder of a political nature,'' Stepashin said in Moscow Wednesday.
He said he had sent a team of crack investigators to get to the
bottom of the case.

   Russian television reported from Kalmykia that police there had
arrested a former aide to Ilyumzhinov on murder charges. But
Kalmykia's Interior Ministry, which is nominally subordinate to
Stepashin but in reality answers only to Ilyumzhinov, has already
ruled out a political motive in Yudina's death, a spokesman said
Wednesday.

   ``This is about authorities who are bad,'' said federal
legislator Yury Schekochikin, a member of the liberal Yabloko party
who joined scores of mourners at Yudina's funeral in Elista
Wednesday.

   Yudina was the third journalist murdered in Russia this year,
according to the Glasnost Defense Foundation, a Moscow-based
watchdog on press freedoms. The foundation has reported dozens of
beatings and threats against journalists who had published reports
critical of regional leaders.

   Recently, a newspaper in the Ural Mountains region of
Bashkortostan was closed down because it was critical of the
republic's president, Murtaza Rakhimov. Local papers that have
criticized the governor of Russia's Far East, Yevgeny Nazdratenko,
have been shut down, their reporters and editors harassed and
beaten. And few Moscow journalists dare to criticize the city's
powerful mayor, Yury Luzhkov.

   ``If you're a journalist and you mess with the local elite, you
stand a good chance of getting beaten up or even killed,'' said
Leonid Bershidsky, a Moscow-based commentator on the Russian media.

   Yudina's paper has alleged on numerous occasions that
Ilyumzhinov misused government credit and forced local businesses
to contribute to his private fund. Ilyumzhinov retaliated by
shutting down her offices and ordered local publishers not to print
the paper.

   Undeterred, Yudina had the paper printed in neighboring regions
and drove it 200 miles across the southern Russian steppe to
Elista.

   ``We can print as much as fits in a Zhiguli,'' Yudina quipped in
an interview with the Globe last September. At the time, she vowed
to continue to publish. ``We say what's going on, and they don't
like it. But at least they aren't killing us off yet.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0121 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:52 ',
			header: '
A4753 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BARNICLE-COLUMN-BOS &LR;      06-11 0774
',
			slug: ' BC-BARNICLE-COLUMN-BOS ',
			headline: '
WE TAKE TOO MUCH FOR GRANTED
',
			trailer: '
   There is no column this morning because I spent too much of the
day sitting on a bench in the sun of the Public Garden yesterday
thinking about this young boy who had been killed the night before
in a car crash down in Cohasset. He was a teenager, only 18,
scheduled to graduate from high school Saturday and although I did
not even know who he was or anything about him I found myself
fighting these tremendous feelings of anger and sadness toward his
death as I watched all the smiles sail by while the swan boats beat
back the water in a perfect summer moment.

   So there's nothing today. Nothing about the lameness and dreary
predictability of politics. Nothing about the increasing number of
American League umpires who are so incompetent they are hurting the
very game that employs them. Nothing about the flourishing economy
or all the invisible people untouched by affluence. Nothing about
law, order, justice, inequity, outrage, humor, or any of the small
larcenies and one-time-only moments that make life a daily carousel
of accident and design.

   Sit and think about a few of the things that make some people
angry: The fact that tolls have to be paid in order to use the
Turnpike. A hike in the cost of making a call from a pay phone or
sending a letter. Diversions caused by a construction project that
result in traffic jams and being late for appointments. A long line
at Starbucks. A politician taking a trip and staying in a hotel
that costs $135 a night.

   I mean, how ludicrous can we get? How petty can our priorities
be that the trivial often bothers us more than the truly terrible?

   I sat and watched tourists snap photographs of flowers and the
statue of Washington on horseback. They spoke Italian, but their
beaming faces offered a universal language.

   The mother held one child by the hand while the father held the
other in his arms. The two boys appeared to be about 7 and 3 years
of age.

   A young guy came streaming along on a skateboard, whipping in
and out of the conga-line of pedestrian traffic cutting between
Charles and Arlington streets. As he approached the young Italian
couple and their children, he veered to the right in order to avoid
hitting them, his board just touching the edge of the lawn, the
wheels braking on the grass.

   ``Sorry,'' the man said, haltingly. ``I no pay attention.''

   ``That's OK,'' the young guy said with a smile.

   As he picked up his skateboard, he must have noticed the woman
holding the child's hand as well as a camera because he turned to
her and said: ``Want me to take your picture? All of you
together?'' But she seemed not to understand, so he pantomimed his
intent and she grinned in agreement.

   The family posed on the walkway above the duck pond, with the
swan boats and the Four Seasons in the background, all of it framed
in a brilliant green landscape. They smiled and waved as the young
guy snapped about four shots.

   He returned the camera and shook hands with the father. Then he
got back on his board and appeared to be surfing on the asphalt as
he headed toward the Ritz.

   I wondered where the picture would be placed. On the living room
mantel of a house in Milan or Rome or Naples? On a farm in the
north of Italy, or in a stucco bungalow bleached by the
Mediterranean sun? How long would it sit there, a memory of two
boys and their parents about their trip to America?

   That thought stuck in my mind until it evolved into a vision of
the Cohasset High School yearbook, probably containing a photograph
of a boy whose parents now have to plan a funeral instead of
celebrating a graduation. Is there anything more cruel than having
to bury a child?

   We sit and watch the stock market, allow ourselves to be
aggravated by Monica Lewinsky or back-ups in a breakdown lane and
we literally ignore the sun above, the flowers at our feet, the
life we get to lead each day. We hear all the complaints and too
little laughter. The grousing but never the cheers.

   The Italian tourists disappeared into the lunch-time crowd
eating sandwiches on the warm grass. Lovers blended with business
people, all part of the parade on a terrific morning when it seemed
as if the whole city crackled with an energy that cannot be
acquired with cash.

   And I sat there thinking about the indescribable burden of pain
that crushed more than a few in Cohasset yesterday. I was thinking
of what most of us take for granted and that's why there is no
column this morning.
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By MIKE BARNICLE 
c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   There is no column this morning because I spent too much of the
day sitting on a bench in the sun of the Public Garden yesterday
thinking about this young boy who had been killed the night before
in a car crash down in Cohasset. He was a teenager, only 18,
scheduled to graduate from high school Saturday and although I did
not even know who he was or anything about him I found myself
fighting these tremendous feelings of anger and sadness toward his
death as I watched all the smiles sail by while the swan boats beat
back the water in a perfect summer moment.

   So there's nothing today. Nothing about the lameness and dreary
predictability of politics. Nothing about the increasing number of
American League umpires who are so incompetent they are hurting the
very game that employs them. Nothing about the flourishing economy
or all the invisible people untouched by affluence. Nothing about
law, order, justice, inequity, outrage, humor, or any of the small
larcenies and one-time-only moments that make life a daily carousel
of accident and design.

   Sit and think about a few of the things that make some people
angry: The fact that tolls have to be paid in order to use the
Turnpike. A hike in the cost of making a call from a pay phone or
sending a letter. Diversions caused by a construction project that
result in traffic jams and being late for appointments. A long line
at Starbucks. A politician taking a trip and staying in a hotel
that costs $135 a night.

   I mean, how ludicrous can we get? How petty can our priorities
be that the trivial often bothers us more than the truly terrible?

   I sat and watched tourists snap photographs of flowers and the
statue of Washington on horseback. They spoke Italian, but their
beaming faces offered a universal language.

   The mother held one child by the hand while the father held the
other in his arms. The two boys appeared to be about 7 and 3 years
of age.

   A young guy came streaming along on a skateboard, whipping in
and out of the conga-line of pedestrian traffic cutting between
Charles and Arlington streets. As he approached the young Italian
couple and their children, he veered to the right in order to avoid
hitting them, his board just touching the edge of the lawn, the
wheels braking on the grass.

   ``Sorry,'' the man said, haltingly. ``I no pay attention.''

   ``That's OK,'' the young guy said with a smile.

   As he picked up his skateboard, he must have noticed the woman
holding the child's hand as well as a camera because he turned to
her and said: ``Want me to take your picture? All of you
together?'' But she seemed not to understand, so he pantomimed his
intent and she grinned in agreement.

   The family posed on the walkway above the duck pond, with the
swan boats and the Four Seasons in the background, all of it framed
in a brilliant green landscape. They smiled and waved as the young
guy snapped about four shots.

   He returned the camera and shook hands with the father. Then he
got back on his board and appeared to be surfing on the asphalt as
he headed toward the Ritz.

   I wondered where the picture would be placed. On the living room
mantel of a house in Milan or Rome or Naples? On a farm in the
north of Italy, or in a stucco bungalow bleached by the
Mediterranean sun? How long would it sit there, a memory of two
boys and their parents about their trip to America?

   That thought stuck in my mind until it evolved into a vision of
the Cohasset High School yearbook, probably containing a photograph
of a boy whose parents now have to plan a funeral instead of
celebrating a graduation. Is there anything more cruel than having
to bury a child?

   We sit and watch the stock market, allow ourselves to be
aggravated by Monica Lewinsky or back-ups in a breakdown lane and
we literally ignore the sun above, the flowers at our feet, the
life we get to lead each day. We hear all the complaints and too
little laughter. The grousing but never the cheers.

   The Italian tourists disappeared into the lunch-time crowd
eating sandwiches on the warm grass. Lovers blended with business
people, all part of the parade on a terrific morning when it seemed
as if the whole city crackled with an energy that cannot be
acquired with cash.

   And I sat there thinking about the indescribable burden of pain
that crushed more than a few in Cohasset yesterday. I was thinking
of what most of us take for granted and that's why there is no
column this morning.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0122 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:52 ',
			header: '
A4754 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GRAPHICS-EARLY-BUDGET     06-11 0533
',
			slug: ' BC-GRAPHICS-EARLY-BUDGET-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here are the New York Times News Service Macintosh graphics
scheduled for AMs of Friday, 06/12/98. They are available to all
NYT graphic clients via satellite on Associated Press GraphicsNet,
and will be posted on PressLink, Newscom and the Wieck
PhotoDatabase bulletin boards. For retransmission of graphics from
the AP, call the AP Service Desk at 212-621-7983.

   Non-subscribers may make individual graphics purchases or get
additional information by calling the NYT Photo/Graphics desk at
(212) 556-4204 between noon and 10 p.m. EST.

   GENERAL

   Nothing at this time. Please check late budet.

   SUNDAY FINANCIAL

   Here is a preliminary look at the graphics scheduled for the
Sunday financial section of The Times. These graphics will be
transmitted Friday evening. The descriptions and sizes are
tentative. Please check tomorrow's late budget for stories and
specific graphics.

   CLUBCORP/Clubs' overview -- 78p x 7 -- (BC-CLUBCORP-DISPUTE-NYT)

   Map of Clubcorp's golf clubs, revenues, membership and earnings.

   INVEST/European indicators -- 12p6 x 9 --
(BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OVERVIEW-NYT)

   Five leading indicators of the European Union; leading
companies.

   INVEST/European markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-HOW-NYT)

   How the stock markets perform in 10 European nations.

   INVEST/Other markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE-NYT)

   How markets outside Europe have been performing.

   INVEST/Closed end funds -- 25p6 x 5 3/4 --
(BC-INVEST-EUROPE-INDIRECT-NYT)

   List of closed end country funds.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian fund -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Contrarian fund facts and figures.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian stocks -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Charts of three stock in the Contrarian fund.

   INVEST/Earnings surprise -- 14p6 x 3 3/4 --
(BC-INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS-NYT)

   How a surprise, bad earnings report effects the market.

   SPEND/Bestsellers -- 30p6 x 8 1/2 -- (BC-SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS-NYT)

   Best selling business books.

   ABOUT-CARS/Porsche -- 30p6 x 4 3/4 --
(BC-ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE-NYT)

   Comparing the Acura, Chevrolet, Dodge and Porsche.

   BIZWEEK Chart 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   MARKETWATCH/Thumbnail 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   SUNFIN WEEKLY 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   KEY RATES/Weekly 06/14 -- 6 x 3 1/2 -- Weekly financial chart

   THE WORLD MARKETS 06/14 -- 2 x 8 -- Stand alone chart

   World stock markets and tabular material on world currencies.

   FINANCIAL

   Winners &AMP; Losers -- 20p x 3 5/15 -- Alternating business chart.

   DAILY BUSINESS

   06/12 MINUTE BY MINUTE -- 22p6 x 2 7/8 -- DOW activity
minute-by-minute.

   06/12 HILOCLOSE -- 25p6 x 4 -- S&AMP;P 500 w/High, Low and Close.

   06/12 NYSE VOLUME -- 25p6 x 2 7/8 -- Volume on the NYSE.

   06/12 KEY RATES -- 12p6 x 3 -- Treasury bonds, notes and bills.

   06/12 ARROWS -- 22p6 x 1 1/2 -- Market performance indicators.

   DAILY WEATHER

   06/12 COLOR WEATHER -- 3 x 4 1/4 -- National forecast map in
color.

   06/12 B&AMP;W WEATHER -- 3 x 4 1/4 -- National forecast map.

   06/12 CLOUD COVER -- 15p x 1 7/8 -- Cloud cover each day.

   06/12 MOON PHASES -- 1 x 5/8 -- The phases of the moon.

   The New York Times News Service
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here are the New York Times News Service Macintosh graphics
scheduled for AMs of Friday, 06/12/98. They are available to all
NYT graphic clients via satellite on Associated Press GraphicsNet,
and will be posted on PressLink, Newscom and the Wieck
PhotoDatabase bulletin boards. For retransmission of graphics from
the AP, call the AP Service Desk at 212-621-7983.

   Non-subscribers may make individual graphics purchases or get
additional information by calling the NYT Photo/Graphics desk at
(212) 556-4204 between noon and 10 p.m. EST.

   GENERAL

   Nothing at this time. Please check late budet.

   SUNDAY FINANCIAL

   Here is a preliminary look at the graphics scheduled for the
Sunday financial section of The Times. These graphics will be
transmitted Friday evening. The descriptions and sizes are
tentative. Please check tomorrow's late budget for stories and
specific graphics.

   CLUBCORP/Clubs' overview -- 78p x 7 -- (BC-CLUBCORP-DISPUTE-NYT)

   Map of Clubcorp's golf clubs, revenues, membership and earnings.

   INVEST/European indicators -- 12p6 x 9 --
(BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OVERVIEW-NYT)

   Five leading indicators of the European Union; leading
companies.

   INVEST/European markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-HOW-NYT)

   How the stock markets perform in 10 European nations.

   INVEST/Other markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE-NYT)

   How markets outside Europe have been performing.

   INVEST/Closed end funds -- 25p6 x 5 3/4 --
(BC-INVEST-EUROPE-INDIRECT-NYT)

   List of closed end country funds.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian fund -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Contrarian fund facts and figures.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian stocks -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Charts of three stock in the Contrarian fund.

   INVEST/Earnings surprise -- 14p6 x 3 3/4 --
(BC-INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS-NYT)

   How a surprise, bad earnings report effects the market.

   SPEND/Bestsellers -- 30p6 x 8 1/2 -- (BC-SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS-NYT)

   Best selling business books.

   ABOUT-CARS/Porsche -- 30p6 x 4 3/4 --
(BC-ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE-NYT)

   Comparing the Acura, Chevrolet, Dodge and Porsche.

   BIZWEEK Chart 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   MARKETWATCH/Thumbnail 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   SUNFIN WEEKLY 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   KEY RATES/Weekly 06/14 -- 6 x 3 1/2 -- Weekly financial chart

   THE WORLD MARKETS 06/14 -- 2 x 8 -- Stand alone chart

   World stock markets and tabular material on world currencies.

   FINANCIAL

   Winners &AMP; Losers -- 20p x 3 5/15 -- Alternating business chart.

   DAILY BUSINESS

   06/12 MINUTE BY MINUTE -- 22p6 x 2 7/8 -- DOW activity
minute-by-minute.

   06/12 HILOCLOSE -- 25p6 x 4 -- S&AMP;P 500 w/High, Low and Close.

   06/12 NYSE VOLUME -- 25p6 x 2 7/8 -- Volume on the NYSE.

   06/12 KEY RATES -- 12p6 x 3 -- Treasury bonds, notes and bills.

   06/12 ARROWS -- 22p6 x 1 1/2 -- Market performance indicators.

   DAILY WEATHER

   06/12 COLOR WEATHER -- 3 x 4 1/4 -- National forecast map in
color.

   06/12 B&AMP;W WEATHER -- 3 x 4 1/4 -- National forecast map.

   06/12 CLOUD COVER -- 15p x 1 7/8 -- Cloud cover each day.

   06/12 MOON PHASES -- 1 x 5/8 -- The phases of the moon.

   The New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0123 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:53 ',
			header: '
A4756 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GRAPHICS-EARLY-BUDGET     06-11 0533
',
			slug: ' BC-GRAPHICS-EARLY-BUDGET-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here are the New York Times News Service Macintosh graphics
scheduled for AMs of Friday, 06/12/98. They are available to all
NYT graphic clients via satellite on Associated Press GraphicsNet,
and will be posted on PressLink, Newscom and the Wieck
PhotoDatabase bulletin boards. For retransmission of graphics from
the AP, call the AP Service Desk at 212-621-7983.

   Non-subscribers may make individual graphics purchases or get
additional information by calling the NYT Photo/Graphics desk at
(212) 556-4204 between noon and 10 p.m. EST.

   GENERAL

   Nothing at this time. Please check late budet.

   SUNDAY FINANCIAL

   Here is a preliminary look at the graphics scheduled for the
Sunday financial section of The Times. These graphics will be
transmitted Friday evening. The descriptions and sizes are
tentative. Please check tomorrow's late budget for stories and
specific graphics.

   CLUBCORP/Clubs' overview -- 78p x 7 -- (BC-CLUBCORP-DISPUTE-NYT)

   Map of Clubcorp's golf clubs, revenues, membership and earnings.

   INVEST/European indicators -- 12p6 x 9 --
(BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OVERVIEW-NYT)

   Five leading indicators of the European Union; leading
companies.

   INVEST/European markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-HOW-NYT)

   How the stock markets perform in 10 European nations.

   INVEST/Other markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE-NYT)

   How markets outside Europe have been performing.

   INVEST/Closed end funds -- 25p6 x 5 3/4 --
(BC-INVEST-EUROPE-INDIRECT-NYT)

   List of closed end country funds.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian fund -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Contrarian fund facts and figures.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian stocks -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Charts of three stock in the Contrarian fund.

   INVEST/Earnings surprise -- 14p6 x 3 3/4 --
(BC-INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS-NYT)

   How a surprise, bad earnings report effects the market.

   SPEND/Bestsellers -- 30p6 x 8 1/2 -- (BC-SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS-NYT)

   Best selling business books.

   ABOUT-CARS/Porsche -- 30p6 x 4 3/4 --
(BC-ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE-NYT)

   Comparing the Acura, Chevrolet, Dodge and Porsche.

   BIZWEEK Chart 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   MARKETWATCH/Thumbnail 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   SUNFIN WEEKLY 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   KEY RATES/Weekly 06/14 -- 6 x 3 1/2 -- Weekly financial chart

   THE WORLD MARKETS 06/14 -- 2 x 8 -- Stand alone chart

   World stock markets and tabular material on world currencies.

   FINANCIAL

   Winners &AMP; Losers -- 20p x 3 5/15 -- Alternating business chart.

   DAILY BUSINESS

   06/12 MINUTE BY MINUTE -- 22p6 x 2 7/8 -- DOW activity
minute-by-minute.

   06/12 HILOCLOSE -- 25p6 x 4 -- S&AMP;P 500 w/High, Low and Close.

   06/12 NYSE VOLUME -- 25p6 x 2 7/8 -- Volume on the NYSE.

   06/12 KEY RATES -- 12p6 x 3 -- Treasury bonds, notes and bills.

   06/12 ARROWS -- 22p6 x 1 1/2 -- Market performance indicators.

   DAILY WEATHER

   06/12 COLOR WEATHER -- 3 x 4 1/4 -- National forecast map in
color.

   06/12 B&AMP;W WEATHER -- 3 x 4 1/4 -- National forecast map.

   06/12 CLOUD COVER -- 15p x 1 7/8 -- Cloud cover each day.

   06/12 MOON PHASES -- 1 x 5/8 -- The phases of the moon.

   The New York Times News Service
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here are the New York Times News Service Macintosh graphics
scheduled for AMs of Friday, 06/12/98. They are available to all
NYT graphic clients via satellite on Associated Press GraphicsNet,
and will be posted on PressLink, Newscom and the Wieck
PhotoDatabase bulletin boards. For retransmission of graphics from
the AP, call the AP Service Desk at 212-621-7983.

   Non-subscribers may make individual graphics purchases or get
additional information by calling the NYT Photo/Graphics desk at
(212) 556-4204 between noon and 10 p.m. EST.

   GENERAL

   Nothing at this time. Please check late budet.

   SUNDAY FINANCIAL

   Here is a preliminary look at the graphics scheduled for the
Sunday financial section of The Times. These graphics will be
transmitted Friday evening. The descriptions and sizes are
tentative. Please check tomorrow's late budget for stories and
specific graphics.

   CLUBCORP/Clubs' overview -- 78p x 7 -- (BC-CLUBCORP-DISPUTE-NYT)

   Map of Clubcorp's golf clubs, revenues, membership and earnings.

   INVEST/European indicators -- 12p6 x 9 --
(BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OVERVIEW-NYT)

   Five leading indicators of the European Union; leading
companies.

   INVEST/European markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-HOW-NYT)

   How the stock markets perform in 10 European nations.

   INVEST/Other markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE-NYT)

   How markets outside Europe have been performing.

   INVEST/Closed end funds -- 25p6 x 5 3/4 --
(BC-INVEST-EUROPE-INDIRECT-NYT)

   List of closed end country funds.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian fund -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Contrarian fund facts and figures.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian stocks -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Charts of three stock in the Contrarian fund.

   INVEST/Earnings surprise -- 14p6 x 3 3/4 --
(BC-INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS-NYT)

   How a surprise, bad earnings report effects the market.

   SPEND/Bestsellers -- 30p6 x 8 1/2 -- (BC-SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS-NYT)

   Best selling business books.

   ABOUT-CARS/Porsche -- 30p6 x 4 3/4 --
(BC-ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE-NYT)

   Comparing the Acura, Chevrolet, Dodge and Porsche.

   BIZWEEK Chart 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   MARKETWATCH/Thumbnail 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   SUNFIN WEEKLY 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   KEY RATES/Weekly 06/14 -- 6 x 3 1/2 -- Weekly financial chart

   THE WORLD MARKETS 06/14 -- 2 x 8 -- Stand alone chart

   World stock markets and tabular material on world currencies.

   FINANCIAL

   Winners &AMP; Losers -- 20p x 3 5/15 -- Alternating business chart.

   DAILY BUSINESS

   06/12 MINUTE BY MINUTE -- 22p6 x 2 7/8 -- DOW activity
minute-by-minute.

   06/12 HILOCLOSE -- 25p6 x 4 -- S&AMP;P 500 w/High, Low and Close.

   06/12 NYSE VOLUME -- 25p6 x 2 7/8 -- Volume on the NYSE.

   06/12 KEY RATES -- 12p6 x 3 -- Treasury bonds, notes and bills.

   06/12 ARROWS -- 22p6 x 1 1/2 -- Market performance indicators.

   DAILY WEATHER

   06/12 COLOR WEATHER -- 3 x 4 1/4 -- National forecast map in
color.

   06/12 B&AMP;W WEATHER -- 3 x 4 1/4 -- National forecast map.

   06/12 CLOUD COVER -- 15p x 1 7/8 -- Cloud cover each day.

   06/12 MOON PHASES -- 1 x 5/8 -- The phases of the moon.

   The New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0124 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:56 ',
			header: '
A4760 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ENTERTAINMENT-NYT-BUD     06-11 0827
',
			slug: ' BC-ENTERTAINMENT-NYT-BUDGET ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Weekend Section stories in sight at this hour from The New York
Times News Service for Friday, June 12.

   For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other entertainment stories from
our partners: Bloomberg News The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,
Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,
Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,
San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.

   &UR; FEATURES &LR;

   NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER (New York) _ ``Julius Caesar'' makes no
mention of a wino. A Poet, yes; a Soothsayer, of course. But there
is no reference in Shakespeare to a tipsy guy in soiled clothes who
heckles Cassius and wheezes during Marc Antony's funeral oration.
And yet here he was on a recent evening, an attention-drawing
spectator teetering noisily in his cups, stage right, as the actors
in the Expanded Arts theater company's open-air ``Julius Caesar''
on the Lower East Side tried to ignore the interruptions and stay
focused on the re-creation of a 2,000-year-old conspiracy and
assassination. In fact, the intrusions of a city alive are exactly
what one has to expect, even appreciate, when sitting down to
classic drama illuminated only by street lamps, bulbs glowing like
electric pumpkins.

   MET-KOREA-GALLERY (New York) _ The new Arts of Korea Gallery at
the Metropolitan Museum is a compact, glowing lantern of a room,
human-scaled and filled with lustrous things. And its opening
brings to successful conclusion the Met's long-held master plan to
gather the major cultures of eastern and southern Asia in a wide
institutional embrace. By Holland Cotter.

   APPLE'S-SAVANNAH (Savannah, Ga.) _ The genius of Savannah lies
in its contradictions. Here is a little city that is positively
Cartesian in the logic of its layout. Yet the rectilinear
regularity never palls, because the streets and parks are shaded by
magnificent live oaks, hung with garlands of Spanish moss. Could
anything be less Cartesian than Spanish moss, with its inescapable
sultry whiff of decadence? A city whose people, rich and poor, are
so steeped in good manners that drivers of garbage trucks wave at
pedestrians as they pass. Yet there is nothing low-key or mannerly
about Savannah's horticultural trademark, the azalea, whose
Technicolor floral eruptions each spring couldn't be brasher. How
lucky Savannah is! Now the question is whether Savannah can survive
its latest stroke of good fortune: John Berendt's vivid portrait of
the city, its glories and its eccentricities, in ``Midnight in the
Garden of Good and Evil,'' published in 1994, which has spent
longer on the best-seller lists than any other nonfiction book. By
R.W. Apple Jr.

   SONGWRITERS-FAME (New York) _ Songwriters' Hall of Fame
ceremony. By Jon Pareles.

   &UR; MOVIES &LR;  &QL;

   AIR-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Un Air De Famille'' (``A Family
Resemblance''): Cedric Klapisch, director; a French comedy.
Reviewed by Janet Maslin.

   WAIT-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Can't Hardly Wait'': Harry
Elfont, Debvorah Kaplan, directors; with Jennifer Love Hewitt.
Reviewed by Janet Maslin.

   BETTE-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Cousin Bette'': Des McAnuff,
director; with Jessica Lange, Kelly MacDonald, Elisabeth Shue.
Reviewed by Stephen Holden.

   HIGH-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``High Art'': Lisa Cholodenko,
director; with Ally Sheedy, Radha Mitchell. Reviewed by Janet
Maslin.

   GIRLS-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Land Girls'': David Leland,
director; with Rachel Weisz, Catherine McCormack, Anna Friel.
Reviewed by Stephen Holden.

   PASSION-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Passion in the Desert'':
Lavinia Currier, director; with Ben Daniels, Michel Piccoli.
Reviewed by Lawrence Van Gelder.

   DAYS-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Six Days, Seven Nights'': Ivan
Reitman, director; with Harrison Ford, Anne Heche. Reviewed by
Janet Maslin.

   EYES-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``When I Close My Eyes'': Shunji
Iwai, director; with Miho Nakayama, Etsushi Toyokawa. In Japanese,
with English subtitles.

   AT-THE-MOVIES (Hollywood) _ News of the silver screen. By
Bernard Weinraub.

   MOVIES-IN-BRIEF (Undated) _ Capsule reviews by New York Times
critics.

   HOMEVIDEO (Undated) _ Short items on what's news in home video
and short reviews of what's new in home video. By Peter M. Nichols.

   &UR; OTHER ENTERTAINMENT &LR;  &QL;

   HULLABALOO-BOOK-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Hullabaloo in the Guava
Orchard,'' by Kiran Desai (Atlantic Books). Reviewed by Michiko
Kakutani.

   TV-WEEKEND (Undated) _ Caryn James spotlights the weekend's
television fare: On Fox, ``The Magic Hour.''

   THEATER-NOTES (Undated) _ News of The Great White Way. By Rick
Lyman.

   ART-NOTES (New York) _ Art world news and notes. By Carol Vogel.

   ANTIQUES-COLUMN (New York) _ The Antiques Column. By Wendy
Moonan.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Weekend Section stories in sight at this hour from The New York
Times News Service for Friday, June 12.

   For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other entertainment stories from
our partners: Bloomberg News The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,
Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,
Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,
San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.

   &UR; FEATURES &LR;

   NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER (New York) _ ``Julius Caesar'' makes no
mention of a wino. A Poet, yes; a Soothsayer, of course. But there
is no reference in Shakespeare to a tipsy guy in soiled clothes who
heckles Cassius and wheezes during Marc Antony's funeral oration.
And yet here he was on a recent evening, an attention-drawing
spectator teetering noisily in his cups, stage right, as the actors
in the Expanded Arts theater company's open-air ``Julius Caesar''
on the Lower East Side tried to ignore the interruptions and stay
focused on the re-creation of a 2,000-year-old conspiracy and
assassination. In fact, the intrusions of a city alive are exactly
what one has to expect, even appreciate, when sitting down to
classic drama illuminated only by street lamps, bulbs glowing like
electric pumpkins.

   MET-KOREA-GALLERY (New York) _ The new Arts of Korea Gallery at
the Metropolitan Museum is a compact, glowing lantern of a room,
human-scaled and filled with lustrous things. And its opening
brings to successful conclusion the Met's long-held master plan to
gather the major cultures of eastern and southern Asia in a wide
institutional embrace. By Holland Cotter.

   APPLE'S-SAVANNAH (Savannah, Ga.) _ The genius of Savannah lies
in its contradictions. Here is a little city that is positively
Cartesian in the logic of its layout. Yet the rectilinear
regularity never palls, because the streets and parks are shaded by
magnificent live oaks, hung with garlands of Spanish moss. Could
anything be less Cartesian than Spanish moss, with its inescapable
sultry whiff of decadence? A city whose people, rich and poor, are
so steeped in good manners that drivers of garbage trucks wave at
pedestrians as they pass. Yet there is nothing low-key or mannerly
about Savannah's horticultural trademark, the azalea, whose
Technicolor floral eruptions each spring couldn't be brasher. How
lucky Savannah is! Now the question is whether Savannah can survive
its latest stroke of good fortune: John Berendt's vivid portrait of
the city, its glories and its eccentricities, in ``Midnight in the
Garden of Good and Evil,'' published in 1994, which has spent
longer on the best-seller lists than any other nonfiction book. By
R.W. Apple Jr.

   SONGWRITERS-FAME (New York) _ Songwriters' Hall of Fame
ceremony. By Jon Pareles.

   &UR; MOVIES &LR;  &QL;

   AIR-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Un Air De Famille'' (``A Family
Resemblance''): Cedric Klapisch, director; a French comedy.
Reviewed by Janet Maslin.

   WAIT-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Can't Hardly Wait'': Harry
Elfont, Debvorah Kaplan, directors; with Jennifer Love Hewitt.
Reviewed by Janet Maslin.

   BETTE-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Cousin Bette'': Des McAnuff,
director; with Jessica Lange, Kelly MacDonald, Elisabeth Shue.
Reviewed by Stephen Holden.

   HIGH-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``High Art'': Lisa Cholodenko,
director; with Ally Sheedy, Radha Mitchell. Reviewed by Janet
Maslin.

   GIRLS-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Land Girls'': David Leland,
director; with Rachel Weisz, Catherine McCormack, Anna Friel.
Reviewed by Stephen Holden.

   PASSION-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Passion in the Desert'':
Lavinia Currier, director; with Ben Daniels, Michel Piccoli.
Reviewed by Lawrence Van Gelder.

   DAYS-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Six Days, Seven Nights'': Ivan
Reitman, director; with Harrison Ford, Anne Heche. Reviewed by
Janet Maslin.

   EYES-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``When I Close My Eyes'': Shunji
Iwai, director; with Miho Nakayama, Etsushi Toyokawa. In Japanese,
with English subtitles.

   AT-THE-MOVIES (Hollywood) _ News of the silver screen. By
Bernard Weinraub.

   MOVIES-IN-BRIEF (Undated) _ Capsule reviews by New York Times
critics.

   HOMEVIDEO (Undated) _ Short items on what's news in home video
and short reviews of what's new in home video. By Peter M. Nichols.

   &UR; OTHER ENTERTAINMENT &LR;  &QL;

   HULLABALOO-BOOK-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Hullabaloo in the Guava
Orchard,'' by Kiran Desai (Atlantic Books). Reviewed by Michiko
Kakutani.

   TV-WEEKEND (Undated) _ Caryn James spotlights the weekend's
television fare: On Fox, ``The Magic Hour.''

   THEATER-NOTES (Undated) _ News of The Great White Way. By Rick
Lyman.

   ART-NOTES (New York) _ Art world news and notes. By Carol Vogel.

   ANTIQUES-COLUMN (New York) _ The Antiques Column. By Wendy
Moonan.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0125 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 14:56 ',
			header: '
A4761 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-JACOBY-COLUMN-BOS &LR;      06-11 0923
',
			slug: ' BC-JACOBY-COLUMN-BOS ',
			headline: '
MASSACHUSETTS TAXPAYERS MAY LOSE A GOOD FRIEND
',
			trailer: '
   God has inflicted many punishments on the people of
Massachusetts. Ted Kennedy. Michael Dukakis. Cambridge. The Green
Line.

   &UR; if,,1 &LR;  But those plagues will be as nothing next to the agonies
awaiting Bay Staters if the good lord lets Citizens for Limited
Taxation and Government go out of business.

   CLT, as it is known to friend and foe, is one of the great
redoubts of the national tax revolt that burst out of California in
the 1970s. Founded in 1974, within two years it had collected its
first scalp, crushing a ballot initiative to replace
Massachusetts's flat-rate income tax with a scheme of graduated
rates. (``That's when the harder you work,'' CLT explained, ``the
more they take away.'') Eighteen years later, when a gaggle of
welfare statists and public sector unions pushed a graduated income
tax onto the ballot once again, CLT crushed it once again.

   Its finest hour came in 1980. Massachusetts was cracking under
the highest tax burden in America. From the governor's office on
down, the state was a wholly owned subsidiary of the Democratic
Party. Malaise ran deep. And then came CLT, just a-walkin' down the
street, with a prescription for tax relief that rocked the
establishment: Proposition 2 1/2.

   It slashed property taxes. Slashed the auto excise tax. Slashed
the income tax for renters. In return, Proposition 2 1/2 was
slashingly attacked by the press and the politicos. Fires would
burn out of control, voters were warned, because there would be no
fire departments to stop them. Sick people would die for lack of
hospitals to treat them. Schools would close. The dead would go
unburied. If Prop 2 1/2 became law, declared the Massachusetts
League of Cities and Towns _ one of many such prophesies, and far
from the most hysterical _ ``it would effectively wipe out
government.''

   On Election Day, Proposition 2 1/2 won by a landslide, 59-41.
And CLT, with its tiny staff and its army of volunteers, had become
a force to reckon with.

   In the 1980s, CLT and its members were the closest thing
Massachusetts had to a functioning opposition party. It had one
loyalty, and that was to the taxpayers; one priority, and that was
tax relief. In 1986, it forced the repeal of the Dukakis income
surtax. In 1987, it killed the Legislature's gluttonous pay raise _
the third raise in eight years, and a greedy 37 percent to boot.

   As Dukakis ran for president, the state's economy disintegrated.
Red ink bled all over Beacon Hill, but the Democrats refused to
trim the budget. Instead, they jacked up taxes _ raising the income
tax from 5 percent to 5.75 percent, then again to 6.25 percent. A
few honest legislators protested, but it was CLT that declared war
_ and especially CLT's incorruptible, irrepressible executive
director, Barbara Anderson. She vowed that her organization would
put the tax hikes before the voters, giving them the chance to undo
the Legislature's damage. Sure enough, CLT got a tax rollback on
the ballot in November 1990; it appeared as Question 3.

   But this time the voters said no. CLT suffered its first major
defeat. On the other hand, it rejoiced in the election of a
Republican governor who had supported Question 3. William Weld
promised CLT he would never sign any law that raised taxes or
weakened Prop 2 1/2, and (by and large) he proved true to his word.

   Now CLT has stumbled again. Its second attempt to roll back the
1989-90 tax hikes has failed. This time it couldn't even muster
enough signatures to get to the ballot. Like locusts, the
government employee unions _ especially the rapacious Massachusetts
Teachers Association _ swarmed all over CLT's petition sheets,
challenging signatures for any reason, however minute and
preposterous. Outspent and outgunned, CLT's four staffers couldn't
defeat the unions' army of lawyers and deep pockets: They wound up
26 signatures short.

   But what of CLT's own army _ the grass-roots activists, the
ticked-off taxpayers? Its membership has dwindled in recent years
from 18,000 to 9,000. The voters who used to line up at shopping
malls to sign CLT's tax-cut petitions now brush past Barbara
Anderson and her volunteers. ``No, thanks, I'm all set,'' they
mutter when asked if they'd like to help lower their own taxes. The
callers to radio talk shows who used to chew up the lines in a fury
over arrogant politicians now prefer to share Viagra jokes.

   So Anderson and her co-director, Chip Ford, are thinking of
closing up shop. Their passion for limited taxation and honest
government is at hot as ever, but if the public no longer cares
when the state rips them off, who needs CLT?

   They are surveying their members and asking the public for
advice. Keep punching, or hang up the gloves? Keep pushing the
Legislature to return some of the state's abundant revenue to the
citizens who earned it, or let Beacon Hill's insiders do as they
please? Keep telling the truth, or abandon the field to the liars?

   Anderson and Ford are funny, blunt, hard-headed, cheerful, and
idealistic. They work 14 hours a day and pay themselves all of $369
a week. They are two of the most selfless allies Massachusetts
voters have ever had. But they can't keep running on fumes. They
need to know they've got some support, and they need some money to
cover the rent. It costs $25 a year to join CLT. The phone number
is 617-248-0022.
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By JEFF JACOBY 
c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   God has inflicted many punishments on the people of
Massachusetts. Ted Kennedy. Michael Dukakis. Cambridge. The Green
Line.

   &UR; if,,1 &LR;  But those plagues will be as nothing next to the agonies
awaiting Bay Staters if the good lord lets Citizens for Limited
Taxation and Government go out of business.

   CLT, as it is known to friend and foe, is one of the great
redoubts of the national tax revolt that burst out of California in
the 1970s. Founded in 1974, within two years it had collected its
first scalp, crushing a ballot initiative to replace
Massachusetts's flat-rate income tax with a scheme of graduated
rates. (``That's when the harder you work,'' CLT explained, ``the
more they take away.'') Eighteen years later, when a gaggle of
welfare statists and public sector unions pushed a graduated income
tax onto the ballot once again, CLT crushed it once again.

   Its finest hour came in 1980. Massachusetts was cracking under
the highest tax burden in America. From the governor's office on
down, the state was a wholly owned subsidiary of the Democratic
Party. Malaise ran deep. And then came CLT, just a-walkin' down the
street, with a prescription for tax relief that rocked the
establishment: Proposition 2 1/2.

   It slashed property taxes. Slashed the auto excise tax. Slashed
the income tax for renters. In return, Proposition 2 1/2 was
slashingly attacked by the press and the politicos. Fires would
burn out of control, voters were warned, because there would be no
fire departments to stop them. Sick people would die for lack of
hospitals to treat them. Schools would close. The dead would go
unburied. If Prop 2 1/2 became law, declared the Massachusetts
League of Cities and Towns _ one of many such prophesies, and far
from the most hysterical _ ``it would effectively wipe out
government.''

   On Election Day, Proposition 2 1/2 won by a landslide, 59-41.
And CLT, with its tiny staff and its army of volunteers, had become
a force to reckon with.

   In the 1980s, CLT and its members were the closest thing
Massachusetts had to a functioning opposition party. It had one
loyalty, and that was to the taxpayers; one priority, and that was
tax relief. In 1986, it forced the repeal of the Dukakis income
surtax. In 1987, it killed the Legislature's gluttonous pay raise _
the third raise in eight years, and a greedy 37 percent to boot.

   As Dukakis ran for president, the state's economy disintegrated.
Red ink bled all over Beacon Hill, but the Democrats refused to
trim the budget. Instead, they jacked up taxes _ raising the income
tax from 5 percent to 5.75 percent, then again to 6.25 percent. A
few honest legislators protested, but it was CLT that declared war
_ and especially CLT's incorruptible, irrepressible executive
director, Barbara Anderson. She vowed that her organization would
put the tax hikes before the voters, giving them the chance to undo
the Legislature's damage. Sure enough, CLT got a tax rollback on
the ballot in November 1990; it appeared as Question 3.

   But this time the voters said no. CLT suffered its first major
defeat. On the other hand, it rejoiced in the election of a
Republican governor who had supported Question 3. William Weld
promised CLT he would never sign any law that raised taxes or
weakened Prop 2 1/2, and (by and large) he proved true to his word.

   Now CLT has stumbled again. Its second attempt to roll back the
1989-90 tax hikes has failed. This time it couldn't even muster
enough signatures to get to the ballot. Like locusts, the
government employee unions _ especially the rapacious Massachusetts
Teachers Association _ swarmed all over CLT's petition sheets,
challenging signatures for any reason, however minute and
preposterous. Outspent and outgunned, CLT's four staffers couldn't
defeat the unions' army of lawyers and deep pockets: They wound up
26 signatures short.

   But what of CLT's own army _ the grass-roots activists, the
ticked-off taxpayers? Its membership has dwindled in recent years
from 18,000 to 9,000. The voters who used to line up at shopping
malls to sign CLT's tax-cut petitions now brush past Barbara
Anderson and her volunteers. ``No, thanks, I'm all set,'' they
mutter when asked if they'd like to help lower their own taxes. The
callers to radio talk shows who used to chew up the lines in a fury
over arrogant politicians now prefer to share Viagra jokes.

   So Anderson and her co-director, Chip Ford, are thinking of
closing up shop. Their passion for limited taxation and honest
government is at hot as ever, but if the public no longer cares
when the state rips them off, who needs CLT?

   They are surveying their members and asking the public for
advice. Keep punching, or hang up the gloves? Keep pushing the
Legislature to return some of the state's abundant revenue to the
citizens who earned it, or let Beacon Hill's insiders do as they
please? Keep telling the truth, or abandon the field to the liars?

   Anderson and Ford are funny, blunt, hard-headed, cheerful, and
idealistic. They work 14 hours a day and pay themselves all of $369
a week. They are two of the most selfless allies Massachusetts
voters have ever had. But they can't keep running on fumes. They
need to know they've got some support, and they need some money to
cover the rent. It costs $25 a year to join CLT. The phone number
is 617-248-0022.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0126 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:09 ',
			header: '
A4784 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-DONNA-OPTIMIST-BOS2ta     06-11 1393
',
			slug: ' BC-DONNA-OPTIMIST-BOS ',
			headline: '
DONNA HARRIS-LEWIS STILL GRIEVES, BUT CALLS HERSELF AN OPTIMIST
',
			trailer: '
   Donna Harris-Lewis walks the halls of the Reggie Lewis Track and
Athletic Center, the Roxbury Community College facility that bears
her deceased husband's name, greeting people she knows with a hug
and a smile and being introduced to those she doesn't.

   One person the widow of the late Celtics captain meets on this
particular spring morning is James McGovern, a teacher at Boston's
Mission Hill School whose fourth- and fifth-graders are attending a
workshop in the next room.

   ``I have a great deal of respect for what this name means to the
kids,'' he tells her.

   By the time McGovern finishes speaking, Harris-Lewis is brushing
away tears. ``Thank you for sharing that,'' she says and then hugs
him.

   It's been almost five years since Reggie Lewis died on July 27,
1993, after shooting baskets at a Brandeis University gym, the
tragic conclusion to a three-month medical odyssey of conflicting
diagnoses from the cardiologists who examined him following his
collapse during a Celtics game on April 29. Lewis was 27 when he
died. His wife was 28, their son, Reggie Jr., &UR;  &LR; was a month shy of
his first birthday, and Harris-Lewis had just told Lewis she was
pregnant with their second child. Questions about whether Lewis
used cocaine, which his widow steadfastly denies, surfaced after
his death and remain unresolved.

   Now Lewis lies buried in an unmarked grave in Forest Hills
Cemetery, and Harris-Lewis is pressing a malpractice suit against
the cardiologist who diagnosed her husband with a benign fainting
condition. Even though a half decade has elapsed since Lewis's
death, his widow has yet to erect a headstone in his memory, a
sign, she says, of how unsettled she still feels.

   ``You know why?'' she asks. ``It's very overwhelming, all that's
taken place. He's not totally rested, and neither am I.''

   And so Donna Harris-Lewis, now 33, moves on with her life, at
once a grieving widow who still weeps at night and a dynamic,
outspoken woman who banishes words like ``depressed'' and
``stress'' from her vocabulary and calls herself an optimist. She
has survived, she says, by relying on her faith in God, keeping
busy with her children and volunteer work, and exploring Eastern
paths to healing.

   On one hand, Harris-Lewis is an active young mother,
home-schooling her children with a back-to-basics Christian
curriculum and maintaining a life of community involvement that
includes heading the Reggie Lewis Foundation, continuing the annual
turkey giveaways she and her husband began in 1990, finishing a
two-year stint as cochairwoman of the board of visitors of the
Dimock Community Health Center in Roxbury, and sitting on the
boards of organizations like the Team Harmony Foundation, Urban
League of Eastern Massachusetts, and Roxbury Community College
Foundation.

   She has, in the past year, dated ``briefly'' and can imagine
remarrying and having more children. She is able, finally, to
answer ``generally, yeah'' when asked if she's happy.

   ``I'm not the first person who lost a husband and I won't be the
last person,'' she says. ``You can't get absorbed into yourself. I
think that's what has helped me, to make everyone else the focal
point, between my children and continuing the work that Reggie and
I had started together.''

   On the other hand, she still struggles to rebuild her life, at a
point of transition now in several arenas. She is searching for a
church where her children, 5-year-old Reggie Jr. and 4-year-old
Reggiena, can attend Sunday school and the family can worship. She
turned to homeschooling when, after looking at schools as diverse
as Christian schools and Montessori programs, she couldn't find a
kindergarten she liked for Reggie Jr., and she remains unsure
whether this is a long-term or short-term solution. She is ready to
leave the sprawling contemporary Cape on 1 1/3 acres in Dedham that
she and Lewis bought for $850,000 in 1991. So she's looking in
various Bay State communities for a new house, ``a place that's
going to offer me a little more serenity and peace than I've had in
the last couple of years.''

   She wears her husband's gold wedding band on the middle finger
of her left hand and only stopped wearing her own wedding and
engagement rings because they no longer fit after Reggiena's birth.
She still lists her husband's name on her checks, and when she
fills out a form to order more homeschooling materials for her
children she writes ``Donna Harris-Lewis and Reggie Lewis
(deceased)'' on the line that says ``Parents.''

   ``Part of me,'' she says, ``went with Reggie when he died.''

   Harris-Lewis is the girl from public housing in Bridgeport,
Conn., the daughter of a single mother, twin of her only sibling, a
brother. She traded high school basketball for a job at 16.
She &UR;  &LR; later worked her way through Northeastern University and
married her college sweetheart _ ``my first true love,'' ``my
soulmate'' _ who ended up signing a $16.5 million five-year
contract with the Celtics. The estate she inherited exceeds $10
million, but, she says, ``I don't consider anybody rich until they
have old money.''

   She's the strong-willed sixth-grader who organized her friends
to stand up to the girl who'd been stealing their lunches. She's
the high school class president who made the senior ski trip
affordable and was not afraid to chase smokers from the girls'
lavoratory. She's the college student who met her best friend,
Darlene Dorcinvil, a black student who came from a predominantly
white suburban neighborhood, by defending her against what
Dorcinvil calls the ``downright mean'' taunts of fellow black
classmates. She's the NBA wife who thought basketball doesn't last
forever and encouraged her husband to finish his college education,
and when he missed a class in 1992 because of obligations to his
Reebok contract, she sat in, eight months pregnant, and took notes
for him.

   When Lewis bought her a Nissan 300ZX in 1990, she ordered a
vanity plate that says ``Nicety,'' for nice and nasty, after the
song by Michel'le _ ``my theme song,'' says Harris-Lewis _ and she
transferred the plate when they traded the 'ZX for the 1993 Range
Rover she still drives.

   ``Ninety-eight percent of the time I'm nice,'' she says, ``but I
know how to get tough when I need to.''

   When Harris-Lewis talks about her lingering restlessness, she is
talking about her pending lawsuit, which, to the surprise of many
in Boston, she filed in 1996, almost three years after her
husband's death, against Dr. Gilbert H. Mudge Jr. of Brigham and
Women's Hospital and three associates.

   ``Ultimately it is God's decision, but there were some mistakes
made along the way,'' she says. ``My children are going to have
questions. `If that's not true, Mommy, why didn't you do
something?' So now I'm going to be able to say I did. Yeah, I did
something about it.''

   The litigation is in the discovery phase, and for Harris-Lewis,
that means sitting through every deposition, her Bible in her bag,
and reliving the events of 1993, then reliving them again when she
reads the transcripts. Most plaintiffs, says her attorney Jeffrey
Rossman, don't attend these sessions.

   ``I needed to hear what went on. Particularly from the first set
of doctors'' _ the so-called dream team of 12 cardiologists
assembled at New England Baptist Hospital who diagnosed Lewis with
a seriously impaired heart _ ``I'm learning everything for the
first time. It's very difficult. Very difficult. Very difficult.
There's a possibility he could be alive,'' she says.

   ``It's a cathartic process for me,'' she says. ``Tears will just
come because I know certain things were done wrong.''

   Harris-Lewis fingers the necklace with the thick, white gold
cross that she bought late last year, after one round of
depositions ended and before a new round starts in a few weeks.

   ``I had a smaller one,'' she says, ``but it's very intimidating
to some degree being with doctors and lawyers in a room. When I saw
this it depicted strength and the abiding faith I have in my higher
power. When we start with more depositions I wanted to feel
protected.''

   &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &UR; MORE &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


 2 takes (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By IRENE SEGE  
 c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   Donna Harris-Lewis walks the halls of the Reggie Lewis Track and
Athletic Center, the Roxbury Community College facility that bears
her deceased husband's name, greeting people she knows with a hug
and a smile and being introduced to those she doesn't.

   One person the widow of the late Celtics captain meets on this
particular spring morning is James McGovern, a teacher at Boston's
Mission Hill School whose fourth- and fifth-graders are attending a
workshop in the next room.

   ``I have a great deal of respect for what this name means to the
kids,'' he tells her.

   By the time McGovern finishes speaking, Harris-Lewis is brushing
away tears. ``Thank you for sharing that,'' she says and then hugs
him.

   It's been almost five years since Reggie Lewis died on July 27,
1993, after shooting baskets at a Brandeis University gym, the
tragic conclusion to a three-month medical odyssey of conflicting
diagnoses from the cardiologists who examined him following his
collapse during a Celtics game on April 29. Lewis was 27 when he
died. His wife was 28, their son, Reggie Jr., &UR;  &LR; was a month shy of
his first birthday, and Harris-Lewis had just told Lewis she was
pregnant with their second child. Questions about whether Lewis
used cocaine, which his widow steadfastly denies, surfaced after
his death and remain unresolved.

   Now Lewis lies buried in an unmarked grave in Forest Hills
Cemetery, and Harris-Lewis is pressing a malpractice suit against
the cardiologist who diagnosed her husband with a benign fainting
condition. Even though a half decade has elapsed since Lewis's
death, his widow has yet to erect a headstone in his memory, a
sign, she says, of how unsettled she still feels.

   ``You know why?'' she asks. ``It's very overwhelming, all that's
taken place. He's not totally rested, and neither am I.''

   And so Donna Harris-Lewis, now 33, moves on with her life, at
once a grieving widow who still weeps at night and a dynamic,
outspoken woman who banishes words like ``depressed'' and
``stress'' from her vocabulary and calls herself an optimist. She
has survived, she says, by relying on her faith in God, keeping
busy with her children and volunteer work, and exploring Eastern
paths to healing.

   On one hand, Harris-Lewis is an active young mother,
home-schooling her children with a back-to-basics Christian
curriculum and maintaining a life of community involvement that
includes heading the Reggie Lewis Foundation, continuing the annual
turkey giveaways she and her husband began in 1990, finishing a
two-year stint as cochairwoman of the board of visitors of the
Dimock Community Health Center in Roxbury, and sitting on the
boards of organizations like the Team Harmony Foundation, Urban
League of Eastern Massachusetts, and Roxbury Community College
Foundation.

   She has, in the past year, dated ``briefly'' and can imagine
remarrying and having more children. She is able, finally, to
answer ``generally, yeah'' when asked if she's happy.

   ``I'm not the first person who lost a husband and I won't be the
last person,'' she says. ``You can't get absorbed into yourself. I
think that's what has helped me, to make everyone else the focal
point, between my children and continuing the work that Reggie and
I had started together.''

   On the other hand, she still struggles to rebuild her life, at a
point of transition now in several arenas. She is searching for a
church where her children, 5-year-old Reggie Jr. and 4-year-old
Reggiena, can attend Sunday school and the family can worship. She
turned to homeschooling when, after looking at schools as diverse
as Christian schools and Montessori programs, she couldn't find a
kindergarten she liked for Reggie Jr., and she remains unsure
whether this is a long-term or short-term solution. She is ready to
leave the sprawling contemporary Cape on 1 1/3 acres in Dedham that
she and Lewis bought for $850,000 in 1991. So she's looking in
various Bay State communities for a new house, ``a place that's
going to offer me a little more serenity and peace than I've had in
the last couple of years.''

   She wears her husband's gold wedding band on the middle finger
of her left hand and only stopped wearing her own wedding and
engagement rings because they no longer fit after Reggiena's birth.
She still lists her husband's name on her checks, and when she
fills out a form to order more homeschooling materials for her
children she writes ``Donna Harris-Lewis and Reggie Lewis
(deceased)'' on the line that says ``Parents.''

   ``Part of me,'' she says, ``went with Reggie when he died.''

   Harris-Lewis is the girl from public housing in Bridgeport,
Conn., the daughter of a single mother, twin of her only sibling, a
brother. She traded high school basketball for a job at 16.
She &UR;  &LR; later worked her way through Northeastern University and
married her college sweetheart _ ``my first true love,'' ``my
soulmate'' _ who ended up signing a $16.5 million five-year
contract with the Celtics. The estate she inherited exceeds $10
million, but, she says, ``I don't consider anybody rich until they
have old money.''

   She's the strong-willed sixth-grader who organized her friends
to stand up to the girl who'd been stealing their lunches. She's
the high school class president who made the senior ski trip
affordable and was not afraid to chase smokers from the girls'
lavoratory. She's the college student who met her best friend,
Darlene Dorcinvil, a black student who came from a predominantly
white suburban neighborhood, by defending her against what
Dorcinvil calls the ``downright mean'' taunts of fellow black
classmates. She's the NBA wife who thought basketball doesn't last
forever and encouraged her husband to finish his college education,
and when he missed a class in 1992 because of obligations to his
Reebok contract, she sat in, eight months pregnant, and took notes
for him.

   When Lewis bought her a Nissan 300ZX in 1990, she ordered a
vanity plate that says ``Nicety,'' for nice and nasty, after the
song by Michel'le _ ``my theme song,'' says Harris-Lewis _ and she
transferred the plate when they traded the 'ZX for the 1993 Range
Rover she still drives.

   ``Ninety-eight percent of the time I'm nice,'' she says, ``but I
know how to get tough when I need to.''

   When Harris-Lewis talks about her lingering restlessness, she is
talking about her pending lawsuit, which, to the surprise of many
in Boston, she filed in 1996, almost three years after her
husband's death, against Dr. Gilbert H. Mudge Jr. of Brigham and
Women's Hospital and three associates.

   ``Ultimately it is God's decision, but there were some mistakes
made along the way,'' she says. ``My children are going to have
questions. `If that's not true, Mommy, why didn't you do
something?' So now I'm going to be able to say I did. Yeah, I did
something about it.''

   The litigation is in the discovery phase, and for Harris-Lewis,
that means sitting through every deposition, her Bible in her bag,
and reliving the events of 1993, then reliving them again when she
reads the transcripts. Most plaintiffs, says her attorney Jeffrey
Rossman, don't attend these sessions.

   ``I needed to hear what went on. Particularly from the first set
of doctors'' _ the so-called dream team of 12 cardiologists
assembled at New England Baptist Hospital who diagnosed Lewis with
a seriously impaired heart _ ``I'm learning everything for the
first time. It's very difficult. Very difficult. Very difficult.
There's a possibility he could be alive,'' she says.

   ``It's a cathartic process for me,'' she says. ``Tears will just
come because I know certain things were done wrong.''

   Harris-Lewis fingers the necklace with the thick, white gold
cross that she bought late last year, after one round of
depositions ended and before a new round starts in a few weeks.

   ``I had a smaller one,'' she says, ``but it's very intimidating
to some degree being with doctors and lawyers in a room. When I saw
this it depicted strength and the abiding faith I have in my higher
power. When we start with more depositions I wanted to feel
protected.''

   &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &UR; MORE &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0127 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:10 ',
			header: '
A4785 &Cx1f; tab-z
r k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SLATE-ADVISORY-NYTSF     06-11 0298
',
			slug: ' BC-SLATE-ADVISORY-NYTSF ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   ----- The best of SLATE is now available in print!-----

   SLATE, the premier online magazine of politics and culture, is
now available to your readers from The New York Times Syndicate.
The best of SLATE will move every Thursday, in time for weekend and
Monday pages, and will bring your readers smart, contrarian opinion
on people who shape events.

   -----------------------------------------------

   CALL NOW FOR A FREE TRIAL OF THE BEST OF SLATE!

   -----------------------------------------------

   This week:

   1. FIRE UP THAT SUN: by Paul Krugman

   What to do about Japan? It could use some old-fashioned
inflation.

   Slugged: BC-SLATE-JAPAN-KRUGMAN-NYTSF, category k

   -------

   2. MCPHEE AIN'T WHAT HE USE TO BE, by Sarah Kerr.

   Slate's book review blasphemes the god of all ex-New Yorker
writers.

   Slugged: BC-SLATE-MCPHEE-BOOK-REVIEW-NYTSF, category e

   --------

   3. MOVIE REVIEWS, by David Edelstein

   ``The Truman Show,'' directed by Peter Weir; ``A Perfect
Murder,'' directed by Andrew Davis; ``The Last Days of Disco,''
directed by Whit Stillman Gramercy.

   Slugged: BC-SLATE-MOVIE-REVIEWS-NYTSF, category e

   -------

   4. DEATH AND LAWYERS, EXPLAINED, by Bruce Gottlieb

   After centuries of Anglo-American jurisprudence, how is it
possible that we still don't know if lawyer-client privilege
applies when the client is dead?

   Slugged: BC-SLATE-ATTORNEY-CLIENT-NYTSF, category k

   -----

   (To publish any of these articles, or other articles on the
Slate site--www.slate.com--call a New York Times Syndicate sales
representatives Bob Farnell, Olivia Vasquez or Connie White at
(888) 2-NYTSYN (888-269-8796).
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   ----- The best of SLATE is now available in print!-----

   SLATE, the premier online magazine of politics and culture, is
now available to your readers from The New York Times Syndicate.
The best of SLATE will move every Thursday, in time for weekend and
Monday pages, and will bring your readers smart, contrarian opinion
on people who shape events.

   -----------------------------------------------

   CALL NOW FOR A FREE TRIAL OF THE BEST OF SLATE!

   -----------------------------------------------

   This week:

   1. FIRE UP THAT SUN: by Paul Krugman

   What to do about Japan? It could use some old-fashioned
inflation.

   Slugged: BC-SLATE-JAPAN-KRUGMAN-NYTSF, category k

   -------

   2. MCPHEE AIN'T WHAT HE USE TO BE, by Sarah Kerr.

   Slate's book review blasphemes the god of all ex-New Yorker
writers.

   Slugged: BC-SLATE-MCPHEE-BOOK-REVIEW-NYTSF, category e

   --------

   3. MOVIE REVIEWS, by David Edelstein

   ``The Truman Show,'' directed by Peter Weir; ``A Perfect
Murder,'' directed by Andrew Davis; ``The Last Days of Disco,''
directed by Whit Stillman Gramercy.

   Slugged: BC-SLATE-MOVIE-REVIEWS-NYTSF, category e

   -------

   4. DEATH AND LAWYERS, EXPLAINED, by Bruce Gottlieb

   After centuries of Anglo-American jurisprudence, how is it
possible that we still don't know if lawyer-client privilege
applies when the client is dead?

   Slugged: BC-SLATE-ATTORNEY-CLIENT-NYTSF, category k

   -----

   (To publish any of these articles, or other articles on the
Slate site--www.slate.com--call a New York Times Syndicate sales
representatives Bob Farnell, Olivia Vasquez or Connie White at
(888) 2-NYTSYN (888-269-8796).
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0128 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:10 ',
			header: '
A4786 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-DONNA-OPTIMIST-2ND &LR;  &UR; T     06-11 1467
',
			slug: ' BC-DONNA-OPTIMIST-2ND ',
			headline: '
 
',
			trailer: '
   Harris-Lewis is an average-sized woman, but at 5-foot-4 she was
small next to her 6-foot-7 husband, and maybe that's one reason her
walk is more stride than saunter. She is protective of herself and
her husband's memory and wary of a press corps she feels was often
inaccurate and unfair. In more than five hours of conversation, her
eyes brim with tears twice, once when talking to the teacher in the
corridor of the Lewis Center and once when asked about reports that
portrayed her as a controlling wife who managed her husband's
career and medical care.

   ``I never saw a perspective that I lost a husband. Everything
else except this woman lost her husband and the father of her
children,'' she says. ``The spin was, you're taking control. You
couldn't say that I was concerned about his well being, that we
should make decisions together? I wasn't making decisions. It
appeared that Reggie didn't have a mind of his own. He was one of
the smartest and most brilliant people I've ever met in my entire
life. And he was a wise man. He didn't talk that much. He absorbed
everything. When he said something, as far as I was concerned it
was law. What are you saying control? A person works alongside his
spouse and we trusted each other.''

   The other question that still rankles is the one about drugs.
``It's a smokescreen for other people not doing their job
correctly,'' Harris-Lewis says. ``If you ask people who knew Reggie
_ because he wasn't around me all the time _ unequivocably no.

   ``I didn't ask his closest friends with the concept of believing
the drugs. To this day I don't,'' she adds. ``He wasn't around me
all the time. That's why. I never believed it for a second.''

   At the time of Lewis's death, the couple was just embarking on
married life. They had wed in Las Vegas in 1991, the same year they
bought their house in Dedham, and the next year Reggie Jr. was
born. Lewis wanted five children, and so did she.

   Now a pencil drawing of Lewis hugging a basketball hangs next to
the kitchen table, opposite the diagrams that remind the two
children how to set a table. Harris-Lewis's mother, Sarah Harris,
travels from Bridgeport to help with her grandchildren. Harris is
here so often, about 70 percent of the time, that she's growing
collard greens, corn, tomatoes, squash, and cucumbers in the
backyard. Her Pontiac Grand Am is parked in the garage, beside
Harris-Lewis's BMW and Range Rover.

   Reggie Jr. bears a startling resemblance to his father, not only
in appearance but also in his quiet manner. Reggiena, on the other
hand, is a lively, outgoing child. ``She's the chi force at our
house,'' Harris-Lewis says. ``God had me deliver her after losing
Reggie to keep us all on our toes.''

   Reggie Jr. is so shy he doesn't talk to a visitor. Reggiena is
so friendly, she immediately pulls up a chair and says, ``My
daddy's not here today. My daddy died. Did your daddy die?'' Hours
later, at lunch, she looks through the pictures in her mother's
wallet and finds one of her father. ``Daddy, Daddy,'' she says and
clasps the photograph to her chest. ``I can have my own daddy. I
can keep him.''

   The Lewises had planned to convert a room over the garage into a
home office, but that room remains unfinished and Harris-Lewis
works from a basement recreation room where a long couch is the
only sofa in the house the children are allowed to climb like a
piece of playground equipment. In the next room is Lewis's
extensive home gym, its walls lined now with the life-size
photographs of him that were used when the Celtics retired his
number in 1995.

   Harris-Lewis's desk is piled with papers from her various
projects: a letter from Celtics Wives Save Lives soliciting
corporate sponsors for their efforts to build a playground at
Boston Medical Center; a mock-up of brochures for the Reggie Lewis
Foundation.

   She has, in recent months, given a $50,000 personal gift to Team
Harmony, which uses professional sports teams to promote tolerance
among youth, $30,000 for a computer laboratory at Northeastern's
African American Institute, and $50,000 to the Courtside Club that
supports Northeastern's basketball program.

   Included in the almost $400,000 endowing the Reggie Lewis
Foundation is a $92,000 contribution from her. Her money, she says
in response to a recent report criticizing the foundation for
spending more on legal bills than grants, covers both overhead and
charitable work. ``Yeah, there are some things we could do
better,'' she says. ``But five years in existence? So soon that you
pass judgment?''

   Harris-Lewis's desk is ringed by books, on one shelf titles like
``Personal Finance for Dummies,'' on another books like Andrew
Weill's ``Spontaneous Healing,'' the paper trail of her journey as
a widow.

   After her husband's death, disillusioned by her experiences,
Harris-Lewis began to explore alternative approaches to health. She
hadn't noticed too many Asians in the hospitals she'd visited and
concluded ``they're doing something right to take care of
themselves.'' So she's added acupuncture and massages to her
medical repertoire. ``I still get checkups, but I just like more
the natural way,'' she says. ``The doctors treat the symptoms but
don't get the core of the whole person.''

   She's read Deepak Chopra and Marianne Williamson, seeking ``a
more spiritual way of leading your life.'' She's learned about feng
shui, the ancient Chinese art of creating balance at home using
such things as color and the placement of furniture. She removed
the telephone from her bedroom. The foot of her bed had faced the
door, a no-no according to feng shui, and she moved it. She invites
her feng shui consultant to inspect any house she might buy.

   ``It's like your body, acupuncture taking the blockage out of
your system so things in your body stay balanced,'' she says.
``It's the same thing in your household.''

   Harris-Lewis, who grew up in the Baptist church, describes
herself as more spiritual than religious. She is not an
every-Sunday-to-church person, and she and her husband never had a
church other than Northeastern's chapel. But crosses with the words
``He arose'' hang in several rooms in her home, and before each
meal, whether lunch with her children or a luncheon at a crowded
hotel ballroom, she bows her head and says grace. The children's
to-do lists include ``pray'' as well as ``pick up toys'' and ``be
kind.'' In the upstairs room where Harris-Lewis uses the video
school of the Pensacola Christian Academy, a Bible sits on a table
alongside a globe and game of Boggle Jr.

   ``Well, you know, we always thank God when things are going
great,'' she says. ``Thank you, God, for this. I appreciate this.
But when bad things happen, you have to talk to God as well. That's
what I've done.''

   Harris-Lewis has just returned from a trip to Washington, where
she presented an award in her husband's name at Team Harmony's
first out-of-Boston event, and to Baltimore, her husband's
hometown, where her children met their first cousins. ``I briefly
cried _ nobody saw me _ but Reggie wasn't there to experience
that,'' Harris-Lewis says.

   If time is, indeed, the wisest counselor, then its passage has
eased tension between Harris-Lewis and her mother-in-law, Inez
``Peggy'' Ritch, a friction made public in a 1994 Globe article
that Harris-Lewis calls ``just cruel.'' Harris-Lewis has paid off
the mortgages on the homes of her mother-in-law and sister-in-law,
and the recent family picnic at Ritch's home, Harris-Lewis says,
``reminded me really of how, before Reggie made the NBA, everybody
got along.''

   ``We've mended our differences over the past year and Donna and
I have an understanding and a good relationship,'' says Ritch.
``There were a lot of bad feelings and misunderstandings, but over
the years it's been taken care of.''

   On Sundays, weather permitting, Harris-Lewis takes her children
to visit their father's grave, under a patch of grass in the
cemetery's Garden of Tranquility. In a few years, ``as we get
closer to completion, of getting things cleared,'' she thinks
she'll be ready to erect a headstone. By then, she says, the
children ``will be old enough to understand and be part of a
ceremony at his resting place.''

   Meanwhile, this is the hardest time of year, the anniversary
season between Lewis's collapse at Boston Garden and his death. The
weather is sunny, azaleas bloom in the garden, and the children,
just back from gymnastics class, play in the driveway. Reggie Jr.
shoots basketballs into a child-sized hoop, and Reggiena rides a
bicycle with training wheels.

   ``I have to remind myself that I'm still young,'' says
Harris-Lewis, ``but I don't feel young.''
',
			body: '


   TAKE-BOS  
 (Undated): ... ``feel protected''

',
			paragraphs: '
   Harris-Lewis is an average-sized woman, but at 5-foot-4 she was
small next to her 6-foot-7 husband, and maybe that's one reason her
walk is more stride than saunter. She is protective of herself and
her husband's memory and wary of a press corps she feels was often
inaccurate and unfair. In more than five hours of conversation, her
eyes brim with tears twice, once when talking to the teacher in the
corridor of the Lewis Center and once when asked about reports that
portrayed her as a controlling wife who managed her husband's
career and medical care.

   ``I never saw a perspective that I lost a husband. Everything
else except this woman lost her husband and the father of her
children,'' she says. ``The spin was, you're taking control. You
couldn't say that I was concerned about his well being, that we
should make decisions together? I wasn't making decisions. It
appeared that Reggie didn't have a mind of his own. He was one of
the smartest and most brilliant people I've ever met in my entire
life. And he was a wise man. He didn't talk that much. He absorbed
everything. When he said something, as far as I was concerned it
was law. What are you saying control? A person works alongside his
spouse and we trusted each other.''

   The other question that still rankles is the one about drugs.
``It's a smokescreen for other people not doing their job
correctly,'' Harris-Lewis says. ``If you ask people who knew Reggie
_ because he wasn't around me all the time _ unequivocably no.

   ``I didn't ask his closest friends with the concept of believing
the drugs. To this day I don't,'' she adds. ``He wasn't around me
all the time. That's why. I never believed it for a second.''

   At the time of Lewis's death, the couple was just embarking on
married life. They had wed in Las Vegas in 1991, the same year they
bought their house in Dedham, and the next year Reggie Jr. was
born. Lewis wanted five children, and so did she.

   Now a pencil drawing of Lewis hugging a basketball hangs next to
the kitchen table, opposite the diagrams that remind the two
children how to set a table. Harris-Lewis's mother, Sarah Harris,
travels from Bridgeport to help with her grandchildren. Harris is
here so often, about 70 percent of the time, that she's growing
collard greens, corn, tomatoes, squash, and cucumbers in the
backyard. Her Pontiac Grand Am is parked in the garage, beside
Harris-Lewis's BMW and Range Rover.

   Reggie Jr. bears a startling resemblance to his father, not only
in appearance but also in his quiet manner. Reggiena, on the other
hand, is a lively, outgoing child. ``She's the chi force at our
house,'' Harris-Lewis says. ``God had me deliver her after losing
Reggie to keep us all on our toes.''

   Reggie Jr. is so shy he doesn't talk to a visitor. Reggiena is
so friendly, she immediately pulls up a chair and says, ``My
daddy's not here today. My daddy died. Did your daddy die?'' Hours
later, at lunch, she looks through the pictures in her mother's
wallet and finds one of her father. ``Daddy, Daddy,'' she says and
clasps the photograph to her chest. ``I can have my own daddy. I
can keep him.''

   The Lewises had planned to convert a room over the garage into a
home office, but that room remains unfinished and Harris-Lewis
works from a basement recreation room where a long couch is the
only sofa in the house the children are allowed to climb like a
piece of playground equipment. In the next room is Lewis's
extensive home gym, its walls lined now with the life-size
photographs of him that were used when the Celtics retired his
number in 1995.

   Harris-Lewis's desk is piled with papers from her various
projects: a letter from Celtics Wives Save Lives soliciting
corporate sponsors for their efforts to build a playground at
Boston Medical Center; a mock-up of brochures for the Reggie Lewis
Foundation.

   She has, in recent months, given a $50,000 personal gift to Team
Harmony, which uses professional sports teams to promote tolerance
among youth, $30,000 for a computer laboratory at Northeastern's
African American Institute, and $50,000 to the Courtside Club that
supports Northeastern's basketball program.

   Included in the almost $400,000 endowing the Reggie Lewis
Foundation is a $92,000 contribution from her. Her money, she says
in response to a recent report criticizing the foundation for
spending more on legal bills than grants, covers both overhead and
charitable work. ``Yeah, there are some things we could do
better,'' she says. ``But five years in existence? So soon that you
pass judgment?''

   Harris-Lewis's desk is ringed by books, on one shelf titles like
``Personal Finance for Dummies,'' on another books like Andrew
Weill's ``Spontaneous Healing,'' the paper trail of her journey as
a widow.

   After her husband's death, disillusioned by her experiences,
Harris-Lewis began to explore alternative approaches to health. She
hadn't noticed too many Asians in the hospitals she'd visited and
concluded ``they're doing something right to take care of
themselves.'' So she's added acupuncture and massages to her
medical repertoire. ``I still get checkups, but I just like more
the natural way,'' she says. ``The doctors treat the symptoms but
don't get the core of the whole person.''

   She's read Deepak Chopra and Marianne Williamson, seeking ``a
more spiritual way of leading your life.'' She's learned about feng
shui, the ancient Chinese art of creating balance at home using
such things as color and the placement of furniture. She removed
the telephone from her bedroom. The foot of her bed had faced the
door, a no-no according to feng shui, and she moved it. She invites
her feng shui consultant to inspect any house she might buy.

   ``It's like your body, acupuncture taking the blockage out of
your system so things in your body stay balanced,'' she says.
``It's the same thing in your household.''

   Harris-Lewis, who grew up in the Baptist church, describes
herself as more spiritual than religious. She is not an
every-Sunday-to-church person, and she and her husband never had a
church other than Northeastern's chapel. But crosses with the words
``He arose'' hang in several rooms in her home, and before each
meal, whether lunch with her children or a luncheon at a crowded
hotel ballroom, she bows her head and says grace. The children's
to-do lists include ``pray'' as well as ``pick up toys'' and ``be
kind.'' In the upstairs room where Harris-Lewis uses the video
school of the Pensacola Christian Academy, a Bible sits on a table
alongside a globe and game of Boggle Jr.

   ``Well, you know, we always thank God when things are going
great,'' she says. ``Thank you, God, for this. I appreciate this.
But when bad things happen, you have to talk to God as well. That's
what I've done.''

   Harris-Lewis has just returned from a trip to Washington, where
she presented an award in her husband's name at Team Harmony's
first out-of-Boston event, and to Baltimore, her husband's
hometown, where her children met their first cousins. ``I briefly
cried _ nobody saw me _ but Reggie wasn't there to experience
that,'' Harris-Lewis says.

   If time is, indeed, the wisest counselor, then its passage has
eased tension between Harris-Lewis and her mother-in-law, Inez
``Peggy'' Ritch, a friction made public in a 1994 Globe article
that Harris-Lewis calls ``just cruel.'' Harris-Lewis has paid off
the mortgages on the homes of her mother-in-law and sister-in-law,
and the recent family picnic at Ritch's home, Harris-Lewis says,
``reminded me really of how, before Reggie made the NBA, everybody
got along.''

   ``We've mended our differences over the past year and Donna and
I have an understanding and a good relationship,'' says Ritch.
``There were a lot of bad feelings and misunderstandings, but over
the years it's been taken care of.''

   On Sundays, weather permitting, Harris-Lewis takes her children
to visit their father's grave, under a patch of grass in the
cemetery's Garden of Tranquility. In a few years, ``as we get
closer to completion, of getting things cleared,'' she thinks
she'll be ready to erect a headstone. By then, she says, the
children ``will be old enough to understand and be part of a
ceremony at his resting place.''

   Meanwhile, this is the hardest time of year, the anniversary
season between Lewis's collapse at Boston Garden and his death. The
weather is sunny, azaleas bloom in the garden, and the children,
just back from gymnastics class, play in the driveway. Reggie Jr.
shoots basketballs into a child-sized hoop, and Reggiena rides a
bicycle with training wheels.

   ``I have to remind myself that I'm still young,'' says
Harris-Lewis, ``but I don't feel young.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0129 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:11 ',
			header: '
A4787 &Cx1f; tab-z
r k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  JAPANCOULDUSESOMEOLD-FAS     06-11 1333
',
			slug: '',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   In an early-'90s Dilbert, an excessively trendy manager exhorted
his team to ``search for excellence in the total quality chaos, or
whatever the Japanese are doing this month.''

   Only a few years ago, the business sections of airport
bookstores were largely given over to tracts revealing the supposed
secrets of Japanese management and the menace Japan posed to the
United States. Then it turned out the Japanese were human, after
all, and everyone lost interest. Western pundits, having once
placed Japan on a pedestal, now either prefer not to discuss the
subject or see Japan's failures mainly as an occasion for smug
self-congratulation.

   But the new story is much more interesting than the old one. How
could a wealthy, productive, sophisticated country have gone from
enviable growth in the 1980s to stagnation in the '90s, and now be
slipping into a downward spiral of recession and deflation? True,
Japan is not a country on the edge of chaos--as Indonesia or Russia
is--but that only adds to the mystery. Japan isn't a place where
the state is weak, unable to collect taxes or convince investors
that their property rights are secure. Nor is it a country at the
mercy of skittish foreign investors who must be persuaded to roll
over its debt: Japan is still the world's largest creditor.

   So what's the explanation?

   Inefficiency? Japan has many inefficiencies that limit its
productive capacity--too many mom-and-pop stores, not enough
computerization in the office, and so on--but inefficiency per se
is not the immediate problem. What Japan lacks right now is not
supply but demand: Japan's consumers and investors just aren't
spending enough to keep the country's shops and factories busy.

   And the usual remedies for inadequate demand aren't working.
Interest rates have been pushed down almost as far as they can go.
Like the Fed, the Bank of Japan normally targets the interest rate
on overnight loans that banks make to each other. The difference is
that this rate is more than 5 percent here, but basically zero
there. The big public spending projects the Japanese government
launches every now and then do create some jobs, but they never
seem to yield enough bang for the yen: The economy keeps relapsing,
while government debt keeps mounting.

   There are three common explanations for Japan's plight.
Explanation 1 is that it is mainly a financial problem. Japan's
corporations are too burdened with debt, its banks too burdened
with bad loans that have never been acknowledged. On this view,
what Japan needs is a long, painful financial house-cleaning.

   Explanation 2 is that the problem is mainly psychological. When
the ``bubble economy'' of the 1980s (remember when the square mile
under the Imperial Palace was supposedly worth more than all
California?) burst, goes the story, consumers and investors went
into a funk that has depressed the economy, and the depressed
economy has perpetuated the funk.

   On this view, what Japan needs is a jump-start--say, a massive
but temporary round of tax cuts and public spending programs that
will restore confidence and get people spending again. (Although it
is tactless to say this, the model everyone privately has in mind
is the way wartime spending jolted the United States out of the
Great Depression. Thank you, Admiral Yamamoto!)

   Explanation 1 doesn't make sense to me. If Japan's problem is
demand, not supply, how do corporate debt and bad loans cause that
problem? You might say that the answer is obvious: Overindebted
companies can't borrow more, and the banks are in no position to
lend anyway.

   But Japan's investment as a percentage of gross domestic product
is the highest among major advanced economies. And banks have been
lending, too--after all, where do you think those excessive debts
and bad loans came from? The problem is that even these high rates
of investment aren't enough to absorb the huge sums that consumers
apparently want to save.

   Until recently I was more sympathetic to Explanation 2. But
lately I have started to wonder whether the stubborn unwillingness
of Japan's economic engine to catch is, as many foreigners seem to
think, merely because the jump-start hasn't been big enough or
sustained enough. And so (like a small but growing number of
people, including at least one influential Japanese economist) I
have started paying attention to Explanation 3--that Japan's
troubles really stem from a subtle but deadly interaction between
demography and ideology.

   Here's the story: Japan, like the United States only much more
so, is an aging society. Thanks to a declining birth rate and
negligible immigration, it faces a steady decline in its
working-age population for at least the next several decades while
retirees increase. Given this prospect, the country should save
heavily to make provision for the future--and lacking the kind of
pay-as-you-go Social Security system that allows Americans to
ignore such realities, it does.

   But investment opportunities in Japan are limited, so that
businesses will not invest all those savings even at a zero
interest rate. And as anyone who has read John Maynard Keynes can
tell you, when desired savings consistently exceed willing
investment, the result is a permanent recession.

   If this is the problem, there is in principle a simple, if
unsettling, solution: What Japan needs to do is promise borrowers
that there will be inflation in the future! If it can do that, then
the effective ``real'' interest rate on borrowing will be negative:
Borrowers will expect to repay less in real terms than the amount
they borrow. As a result they will be willing to spend more, which
is what Japan needs. In short, this explanation suggests that
inflation--or more precisely the promise of future inflation--is
the medicine that will cure Japan's ills.

   The trouble--the other half of the Japanese trap--is that while
the conclusion that Japan needs inflation emerges from what looks
like impeccable economic logic, we live in an era in which central
bankers believe (and are believed to believe) in price stability as
an overriding goal.

   The peculiar result of the credibility of modern central bankers
as inflation hawks is that no matter how much money the Bank of
Japan prints now, it doesn't matter: It can't lower the nominal
interest rate, because that rate is already zero, and because
people don't believe that it will allow inflation to break out any
time in the future, it can't lower the real interest rate either.

   This theory is offensive to many people. Deep economic problems
are supposed to be a punishment for deep economic sins, not an
accidental byproduct of swings in the birth rate. Inflation is
supposed to be a deadly poison, not a useful medicine. Above all,
it seems implausible that the proposed solution to such severe
difficulties could involve so little pain. And while I think logic
and evidence are on my side--that demography, not crony capitalism,
is the villain, and inflation is the answer--it is certainly
possible that I am wrong.

   But Japan worries me. It's not just that we are talking about a
huge economy here, an economy whose woes can drag down a lot of
smaller countries with it. What really disturbs me is this: If we
don't really understand what has gone wrong in Japan, who's to
saythe same thing can't happen to us?

   &UR; (Paul Krugman is a professor of economics at MIT.) &QL; 
 &UR; Copyright 1998 Slate &QL;  Visit Slate on the Web at:
http:www.slate.com &QL;  (Distributed by New York Times Special
Features) &LR;  &QL;

   ----------

   (To publish this article, call a New York Times Syndicate sales
representative, Bob Farnell, Olivia Vasquez or Connie White, at
(888) 2-NYTSYN (888-269-8796).
',
			body: '
 JAPAN COULD USE SOME OLD-FASHIONED INFLATION  
 By PAUL KRUGMAN 
 (www.slate.com) 
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  

',
			paragraphs: '
   In an early-'90s Dilbert, an excessively trendy manager exhorted
his team to ``search for excellence in the total quality chaos, or
whatever the Japanese are doing this month.''

   Only a few years ago, the business sections of airport
bookstores were largely given over to tracts revealing the supposed
secrets of Japanese management and the menace Japan posed to the
United States. Then it turned out the Japanese were human, after
all, and everyone lost interest. Western pundits, having once
placed Japan on a pedestal, now either prefer not to discuss the
subject or see Japan's failures mainly as an occasion for smug
self-congratulation.

   But the new story is much more interesting than the old one. How
could a wealthy, productive, sophisticated country have gone from
enviable growth in the 1980s to stagnation in the '90s, and now be
slipping into a downward spiral of recession and deflation? True,
Japan is not a country on the edge of chaos--as Indonesia or Russia
is--but that only adds to the mystery. Japan isn't a place where
the state is weak, unable to collect taxes or convince investors
that their property rights are secure. Nor is it a country at the
mercy of skittish foreign investors who must be persuaded to roll
over its debt: Japan is still the world's largest creditor.

   So what's the explanation?

   Inefficiency? Japan has many inefficiencies that limit its
productive capacity--too many mom-and-pop stores, not enough
computerization in the office, and so on--but inefficiency per se
is not the immediate problem. What Japan lacks right now is not
supply but demand: Japan's consumers and investors just aren't
spending enough to keep the country's shops and factories busy.

   And the usual remedies for inadequate demand aren't working.
Interest rates have been pushed down almost as far as they can go.
Like the Fed, the Bank of Japan normally targets the interest rate
on overnight loans that banks make to each other. The difference is
that this rate is more than 5 percent here, but basically zero
there. The big public spending projects the Japanese government
launches every now and then do create some jobs, but they never
seem to yield enough bang for the yen: The economy keeps relapsing,
while government debt keeps mounting.

   There are three common explanations for Japan's plight.
Explanation 1 is that it is mainly a financial problem. Japan's
corporations are too burdened with debt, its banks too burdened
with bad loans that have never been acknowledged. On this view,
what Japan needs is a long, painful financial house-cleaning.

   Explanation 2 is that the problem is mainly psychological. When
the ``bubble economy'' of the 1980s (remember when the square mile
under the Imperial Palace was supposedly worth more than all
California?) burst, goes the story, consumers and investors went
into a funk that has depressed the economy, and the depressed
economy has perpetuated the funk.

   On this view, what Japan needs is a jump-start--say, a massive
but temporary round of tax cuts and public spending programs that
will restore confidence and get people spending again. (Although it
is tactless to say this, the model everyone privately has in mind
is the way wartime spending jolted the United States out of the
Great Depression. Thank you, Admiral Yamamoto!)

   Explanation 1 doesn't make sense to me. If Japan's problem is
demand, not supply, how do corporate debt and bad loans cause that
problem? You might say that the answer is obvious: Overindebted
companies can't borrow more, and the banks are in no position to
lend anyway.

   But Japan's investment as a percentage of gross domestic product
is the highest among major advanced economies. And banks have been
lending, too--after all, where do you think those excessive debts
and bad loans came from? The problem is that even these high rates
of investment aren't enough to absorb the huge sums that consumers
apparently want to save.

   Until recently I was more sympathetic to Explanation 2. But
lately I have started to wonder whether the stubborn unwillingness
of Japan's economic engine to catch is, as many foreigners seem to
think, merely because the jump-start hasn't been big enough or
sustained enough. And so (like a small but growing number of
people, including at least one influential Japanese economist) I
have started paying attention to Explanation 3--that Japan's
troubles really stem from a subtle but deadly interaction between
demography and ideology.

   Here's the story: Japan, like the United States only much more
so, is an aging society. Thanks to a declining birth rate and
negligible immigration, it faces a steady decline in its
working-age population for at least the next several decades while
retirees increase. Given this prospect, the country should save
heavily to make provision for the future--and lacking the kind of
pay-as-you-go Social Security system that allows Americans to
ignore such realities, it does.

   But investment opportunities in Japan are limited, so that
businesses will not invest all those savings even at a zero
interest rate. And as anyone who has read John Maynard Keynes can
tell you, when desired savings consistently exceed willing
investment, the result is a permanent recession.

   If this is the problem, there is in principle a simple, if
unsettling, solution: What Japan needs to do is promise borrowers
that there will be inflation in the future! If it can do that, then
the effective ``real'' interest rate on borrowing will be negative:
Borrowers will expect to repay less in real terms than the amount
they borrow. As a result they will be willing to spend more, which
is what Japan needs. In short, this explanation suggests that
inflation--or more precisely the promise of future inflation--is
the medicine that will cure Japan's ills.

   The trouble--the other half of the Japanese trap--is that while
the conclusion that Japan needs inflation emerges from what looks
like impeccable economic logic, we live in an era in which central
bankers believe (and are believed to believe) in price stability as
an overriding goal.

   The peculiar result of the credibility of modern central bankers
as inflation hawks is that no matter how much money the Bank of
Japan prints now, it doesn't matter: It can't lower the nominal
interest rate, because that rate is already zero, and because
people don't believe that it will allow inflation to break out any
time in the future, it can't lower the real interest rate either.

   This theory is offensive to many people. Deep economic problems
are supposed to be a punishment for deep economic sins, not an
accidental byproduct of swings in the birth rate. Inflation is
supposed to be a deadly poison, not a useful medicine. Above all,
it seems implausible that the proposed solution to such severe
difficulties could involve so little pain. And while I think logic
and evidence are on my side--that demography, not crony capitalism,
is the villain, and inflation is the answer--it is certainly
possible that I am wrong.

   But Japan worries me. It's not just that we are talking about a
huge economy here, an economy whose woes can drag down a lot of
smaller countries with it. What really disturbs me is this: If we
don't really understand what has gone wrong in Japan, who's to
saythe same thing can't happen to us?

   &UR; (Paul Krugman is a professor of economics at MIT.) &QL; 
 &UR; Copyright 1998 Slate &QL;  Visit Slate on the Web at:
http:www.slate.com &QL;  (Distributed by New York Times Special
Features) &LR;  &QL;

   ----------

   (To publish this article, call a New York Times Syndicate sales
representative, Bob Farnell, Olivia Vasquez or Connie White, at
(888) 2-NYTSYN (888-269-8796).
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0130 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:11 ',
			header: '
A4788 &Cx1f; tab-z
r k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SLATE-ATTORNEY-CLIENT     06-11 0621
',
			slug: ' BC-SLATE-ATTORNEY-CLIENT-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
DEATH AND LAWYERS, EXPLAINED 
',
			trailer: '
   Does the lawyer-client privilege apply when the client is dead?
Kenneth Starr wants three pages of notes taken by Vincent Foster's
lawyer. The Supreme Court heard arguments Monday. The New York
Times and Washington Post both had good pieces on the arguments pro
and con. But neither explained one thing: this is still an open
question?

   Slate's Explainer asked around, and it seems state courts have
ruled.

   Only the federal courts have not weighed in. Starr's
investigation is a federal matter. It is not impossibly surprising
that no federal court has heard such a case. After all, 1) someone
must die; 2) the decedent must know something relevant to an
ongoing federal case; and 3) the decedent must have revealed facts
otherwise undiscoverable to his/her attorney.

   There is general agreement among the state courts that the
attorney-client privilege does extend past death. There is no
actual statute anywhere to this effect. But there is a thin string
of state court cases dating back to 1840, holding that, in criminal
cases, the attorney's privilege outlives the client. (Disputes over
wills are treated differently--attorneys must testify about
conversations with the decedent.)

   The most horrifying case: In 1976, an attorney whose deceased
client had confessed, in private, to a double murder was prevented
by an Arizona court from testifying for a man accused of the
murder. This (innocent?) man is currently serving a life sentence.

   The most famous case (also horrifying): in 1990 a Bostonian
named Charles Stuart almost certainly staged the brutal murder of
his pregnant wife, blamed it on an anonymous black man, and then
jumped off a bridge just before being unmasked as a murderer.
Before jumping he is thought to have confessed to his attorney,
whom prosecutors could not force to testify.

   TV courts have spoken too, and wrongly (or perhaps presciently).
An L.A. Law episode from 1991 features a TV prosecutor who argues
that ``the privilege dies with the client.'' The TV judge and TV
defense attorney do not blink at this misreading of the common law.

   The arguments for death-proof attorney-client privilege are that
1) a person's right to privacy extends into death, because
reputation matters and 2) knowing that your lawyer can reveal your
conversations even after you are dead undermines the basic purpose
of the privilege, which is to encourage clients to talk frankly
with their lawyers. The American Bar Association insists lawyers
cannot adequately defend a client unwilling to tell the lawyer
everything. (Lawyers are not consigned to silence about
attorney-client communications, however, when a living client won't
pay his/her bill.)

   The arguments against death-proof attorney-client privilege are
that 1) it hampers prosecutions--if Vince Foster were alive we'd
ask him, but he's dead so we should ask his attorney--and 2) if
it's OK for lawyers to violate privacy during disputed wills, it
should be OK during more important proceedings, such as criminal
trials.

   (Explainer thanks Professor Akhil Reed Amar, Professor Kevin
McMunigal, and Simon J. Frankel for their help.)
 &UR; (Bruce Gottlieb writes the Explainer column for Slate.)
 &UR; Copyright 1998 Slate &QL;  Visit Slate on the Web at:
http:www.slate.com &QL;  (Distributed by New York Times Special
Features) &LR;  &QL;

   ----------

   (To publish this article, call a New York Times Syndicate sales
representative, Bob Farnell, Olivia Vasquez or Connie White, at
(888) 2-NYTSYN (888-269-8796).
',
			body: '


  By BRUCE GOTTLIEB 
 (www.slate.com) 
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Does the lawyer-client privilege apply when the client is dead?
Kenneth Starr wants three pages of notes taken by Vincent Foster's
lawyer. The Supreme Court heard arguments Monday. The New York
Times and Washington Post both had good pieces on the arguments pro
and con. But neither explained one thing: this is still an open
question?

   Slate's Explainer asked around, and it seems state courts have
ruled.

   Only the federal courts have not weighed in. Starr's
investigation is a federal matter. It is not impossibly surprising
that no federal court has heard such a case. After all, 1) someone
must die; 2) the decedent must know something relevant to an
ongoing federal case; and 3) the decedent must have revealed facts
otherwise undiscoverable to his/her attorney.

   There is general agreement among the state courts that the
attorney-client privilege does extend past death. There is no
actual statute anywhere to this effect. But there is a thin string
of state court cases dating back to 1840, holding that, in criminal
cases, the attorney's privilege outlives the client. (Disputes over
wills are treated differently--attorneys must testify about
conversations with the decedent.)

   The most horrifying case: In 1976, an attorney whose deceased
client had confessed, in private, to a double murder was prevented
by an Arizona court from testifying for a man accused of the
murder. This (innocent?) man is currently serving a life sentence.

   The most famous case (also horrifying): in 1990 a Bostonian
named Charles Stuart almost certainly staged the brutal murder of
his pregnant wife, blamed it on an anonymous black man, and then
jumped off a bridge just before being unmasked as a murderer.
Before jumping he is thought to have confessed to his attorney,
whom prosecutors could not force to testify.

   TV courts have spoken too, and wrongly (or perhaps presciently).
An L.A. Law episode from 1991 features a TV prosecutor who argues
that ``the privilege dies with the client.'' The TV judge and TV
defense attorney do not blink at this misreading of the common law.

   The arguments for death-proof attorney-client privilege are that
1) a person's right to privacy extends into death, because
reputation matters and 2) knowing that your lawyer can reveal your
conversations even after you are dead undermines the basic purpose
of the privilege, which is to encourage clients to talk frankly
with their lawyers. The American Bar Association insists lawyers
cannot adequately defend a client unwilling to tell the lawyer
everything. (Lawyers are not consigned to silence about
attorney-client communications, however, when a living client won't
pay his/her bill.)

   The arguments against death-proof attorney-client privilege are
that 1) it hampers prosecutions--if Vince Foster were alive we'd
ask him, but he's dead so we should ask his attorney--and 2) if
it's OK for lawyers to violate privacy during disputed wills, it
should be OK during more important proceedings, such as criminal
trials.

   (Explainer thanks Professor Akhil Reed Amar, Professor Kevin
McMunigal, and Simon J. Frankel for their help.)
 &UR; (Bruce Gottlieb writes the Explainer column for Slate.)
 &UR; Copyright 1998 Slate &QL;  Visit Slate on the Web at:
http:www.slate.com &QL;  (Distributed by New York Times Special
Features) &LR;  &QL;

   ----------

   (To publish this article, call a New York Times Syndicate sales
representative, Bob Farnell, Olivia Vasquez or Connie White, at
(888) 2-NYTSYN (888-269-8796).
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0131 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:11 ',
			header: '
A4789 &Cx1f; tab-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SLATE-MOVIE-REVIEWS-N     06-11 1781
',
			slug: ' BC-SLATE-MOVIE-REVIEWS-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
PEEP SHOW 
',
			trailer: '
   How hard it is these days to review a movie instead of the hype
that surrounds it!

   Would I have been less stinting in my praise for the giddy,
entertaining ``Bulworth'' if my brain had not been saturated by
credulous magazine and newspaper testimonials to the political
daring of Warren Beatty? Would I welcome ``The Truman Show'' for
what it is--a sharp-witted, visually layered, gorgeously designed,
meticulously directed piece of formula pablum--if I hadn't been
bludgeoned by pre-emptive raves in Esquire, Time, Entertainment
Weekly, and the New York Times that proclaim it some sort of
subversive postmodern masterwork?

   Let me attempt to pick the media lint out of my head. OK. ``The
Truman Show,'' directed by Peter Weir from a script by Andrew
Niccol, is the story of Truman Burbank (Jim Carrey), a rather
ordinary insurance salesman in a picturesque town called Seahaven.

   Unbeknownst to Truman, however, he's not ordinary but
``ordinary'': From birth, he has functioned as the protagonist of
an internationally televised, 24-hour-a-day series called ``The
Truman Show.'' And the folks who surround him--including his wife,
Meryl (Laura Linney), best buddy Marlon (Noah Emmerich) and,
indeed, all the residents of Seahaven--are actors, frequently fed
their lines by a producer-director (an eerily self-absorbed Ed
Harris) who goes by the name of Christof and watches over all from
a control room concealed behind a storybook moon.

   I don't want to give away too many surprises--the full extent to
which this universe has been crafted and Truman's destiny
determined--because our hero's ``existential'' crisis, his
escalating paranoia and discovery of the wheels and pulleys behind
his existence, gives ``The Truman Show'' its comic hum and
entertainingly Orwellian suspense. But the movie's conceit is plain
from its prologue: Billions of viewers all over the world tune in
faithfully to partake of Truman's ordinariness, to share his
triumphs and feel his pain, to follow his mundane comings and
goings--and buy the products that the actors who surround him are
constantly hawking.

   The film is an art object and a droll one. The seacoast town,
with its neat rows of pretty white Cape houses, has been conceived
in the manner of the photographer Joel Meyerowitz, with sharp
geometrical lines and light that's both direct and softening. When
Truman and Marlon converse on the beach, their image pops out from
a sky that's like a subtly colored cyclorama. The artifice is
enjoyably creepy, at times reminiscent of ``Invasion of the Body
Snatchers'' and its 1978 San Francisco-based remake.

   Weir makes us constantly aware of the lenses he's using and the
placement of the cameras, which swivel to catch Truman as he moves
from spot to spot. He teases us, so that we're not always sure if
we're watching Truman through Christof's lenses or Weir's. (Are we
Big Brother?)

   The wit is double-edged: The director makes you marvel at the
intricacy of this hermetically sealed universe while priming you to
root for its overthrow--to hope for the innocent at the center to
put the pieces together and find a way to break out of his (velvet)
prison.

   The idea of the Warholesque conceptual artist as fascist is
fun--and not that outlandish, if you caught the Maysles' 1985
documentary of Christo attempting to swathe the islands of Biscayne
Bay in pink plastic. The Christof of ``The Truman Show'' is a
peculiarly loving fascist, a self-styled patriarch who has
convinced himself that the tidy '50s TV universe he has fabricated
is superior to the real one--and that Truman, his ``son,'' is lucky
to have so attentive a god.

   At times, the movie seems like a refutation of laboratory
psychology, of the Skinnerian thesis that positive reinforcement in
a controlled environment yields a particular desired behavior. Will
Truman exercise free will and escape this bland utopia? Will he--to
borrow the imagery of Weir's ``Dead Poets Society'' (1989)--find it
in himself to stand atop his desk, recite poetry, and assert his
independence in the face of an overweening (and potentially lethal)
patriarchy?

   As my synopsis suggests, the questions posed by ``The Truman
Show'' are neither novel nor radical. They are, rather, populist
and quaintly countercultural--daring, perhaps, in an era in which
conformity was enforced and father knew best but not after decades
in which filmmakers and visual artists have scrawled obscene
graffiti on every '50s TV icon imaginable. It's hard to imagine a
less threatening, more commercially accommodating counterculture
hero than Truman, who has no dark side and no rough edges, who is
never even observed to scratch his private parts or pick his nose.

   He will doubtless appeal to the vast segment of the audience
that loves to identify with Forrest Gump or the child trapped in a
man's body in Big. This is a movie straight out of the American
tradition of sentimentalizing children. Go read ``Lord of the
Flies'' for your subversive take on innocence.

   At first, I wondered if a performer with fewer showbiz
affectations than Carrey might have made for a more compelling
protagonist. But the point seems to be that the Truman we first
meet has been molded by his environment into a fake person--that he
has taken on the TV-ish coloration of his ``co-stars,'' and that he
becomes ``real'' only as he realizes the truth. Carrey won me over.
He's terrific--but then, he's often terrific. His mask work in
``The Mask'' (1994) is the trickiest this side of Bali, and his
turn in ``Dumb and Dumber'' (1995) is a wondrous ballet of
cretinousness.

   Carrey is the most inventive screen clown since Steve
Martin--only less deliberate, and also less protected, more prone
to fall on his face when a gag doesn't fly. If Martin can seem like
a clown so hungry for approval that he sweats through his comic
mask, Carrey's vulnerability comes from donning mask after mask in
a desperate attempt to make contact. He recalls the comedians on
the TV show ``Make Me Laugh,'' who work with grim single-mindedness
to break through the stone-faced reserve of contestants. Goofy
faces notwithstanding, there's nothing glib in Carrey's routines.
Performing for his life, he's the most exposed of performers.

   He's even more exposed in ``The Truman Show.'' As Truman, Carrey
has to show that the masks he has worn all his life no longer
express what he's feeling. Dropping them--along with the rest of
his schtick--makes him seem helpless, childlike, bewildered, naked.
The movie might have been a soulless exercise without him. With
him, it has an authentic tremulousness, and also a dread, as if
Pinocchio needed to take on Gepetto and Jiminy Crickett to become a
real boy.

   It's fashionable to dump on the creakily old-fashioned thriller
playwright Frederick Knott these days, but I've always loved his
``Wait Until Dark'' and (especially) ``Dial M for Murder.'' Knott
is a maestro of thriller minutiae. In ``Dial M,'' the key to the
story's resolution is just that ... a key, which a husband removes
from his wife's key ring to leave in the mailbox for the man he has
hired to murder her.

   Alfred Hitchcock filmed Knott's play in 1954 with Ray Milland
and Grace Kelly. It looks OK on television, but it's marvelous when
shown in its original 3-D--when all those props literally pop out
of the screen.

   ``A Perfect Murder,'' directed by Andrew Davis (``The
Fugitive,'' 1993), is a very loose adaptation. It has been sexed
up, opened out, and finished off with a disappointing bang-bang
climax, but it's still good fun--partly because screenwriter
Patrick Smith Kelly respects Knott's construction enough to keep
the machinations with the key and partly because the new cast is
sensational.

   Could there be a better role for Michael Douglas than an aging,
heartless cuckold watching his wife and wealth slip away? The
addiction to opulence, the fierce set of the jaw, the bulging eyes,
and seething demeanor: Douglas has never seemed more at home, not
even in Wall Street (1987). As his young wife, Gwyneth Paltrow
gives Grace Kelly a run for her money in the drop-dead-gorgeous
department, and her acting is better than ever. Life seems to be
breaking Paltrow in a bit, and it's making her seem halfway human.

   Viggo Mortensen, who plays Paltrow's painter-lover, has been a
star-in-the-making for years. Check out Brian DePalma's virtuosic
``Carlito's Way'' (1993)--that's the Swede Mortensen, with dark
hair, as the hapless Hispanic paraplegic whom the cops wire in an
effort to entrap Al Pacino. I worried for the first half of ``A
Perfect Murder'' that audiences would see this mumbling,
affectless, pretty-boy and think Mortensen wasn't much of an actor,
the way they only saw beefcake when they looked at Nick Nolte in
``The Deep'' (1977). But Mortensen knows how to tantalize. The part
is barely filled-in, and that's how he leaves it. He respects its
mystery, its dark heart. You never know which way he'll go, and you
never take your eyes off him.

   For Whit Stillman and, as far as I know, no one else on the
planet, the discos of the early '80s were salons with a back
beat--places where men and women could get dressed up to gyrate a
little and then sit around saying twitty pseudointellectual things,
the music conveniently dropping a notch so as not to force them to
shout.

   The context for ``The Last Days of Disco'' is vaguely satirical,
but Stillman gives no evidence that he could write his characters
any other way; these people seem to be the only sort he knows. In
his first film, ``Metropolitan'' (1990), he chose never to move the
camera: Each shot was a tableaux (barely) vivant, and (tiny) form
meshed with (tiny) content to suggest a larger vision of the stasis
of the privileged classes.

   Here, the camera moves a little but the point of view is frozen:
It's Stillman who seems in stasis now. This is a rhythmless,
stupefying work. A person with no discernible pulse ought not to be
directing a movie about disco. I forced myself to stay for almost
90 minutes and then decided someone ought to boogie.
 &UR; (David Edelstein is Slate's movie critic.) &QL; 
 &UR; Copyright 1998 Slate &QL;  Visit Slate on the Web at:
http:www.slate.com &QL;  (Distributed by New York Times Special
Features) &LR;  &QL;

   ----------

   (To publish this article, call a New York Times Syndicate sales
representative, Bob Farnell, Olivia Vasquez or Connie White, at
(888) 2-NYTSYN (888-269-8796).

   .
',
			body: '


  By DAVID EDELSTEIN  
 (www.slate.com) 
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  

',
			paragraphs: '
   How hard it is these days to review a movie instead of the hype
that surrounds it!

   Would I have been less stinting in my praise for the giddy,
entertaining ``Bulworth'' if my brain had not been saturated by
credulous magazine and newspaper testimonials to the political
daring of Warren Beatty? Would I welcome ``The Truman Show'' for
what it is--a sharp-witted, visually layered, gorgeously designed,
meticulously directed piece of formula pablum--if I hadn't been
bludgeoned by pre-emptive raves in Esquire, Time, Entertainment
Weekly, and the New York Times that proclaim it some sort of
subversive postmodern masterwork?

   Let me attempt to pick the media lint out of my head. OK. ``The
Truman Show,'' directed by Peter Weir from a script by Andrew
Niccol, is the story of Truman Burbank (Jim Carrey), a rather
ordinary insurance salesman in a picturesque town called Seahaven.

   Unbeknownst to Truman, however, he's not ordinary but
``ordinary'': From birth, he has functioned as the protagonist of
an internationally televised, 24-hour-a-day series called ``The
Truman Show.'' And the folks who surround him--including his wife,
Meryl (Laura Linney), best buddy Marlon (Noah Emmerich) and,
indeed, all the residents of Seahaven--are actors, frequently fed
their lines by a producer-director (an eerily self-absorbed Ed
Harris) who goes by the name of Christof and watches over all from
a control room concealed behind a storybook moon.

   I don't want to give away too many surprises--the full extent to
which this universe has been crafted and Truman's destiny
determined--because our hero's ``existential'' crisis, his
escalating paranoia and discovery of the wheels and pulleys behind
his existence, gives ``The Truman Show'' its comic hum and
entertainingly Orwellian suspense. But the movie's conceit is plain
from its prologue: Billions of viewers all over the world tune in
faithfully to partake of Truman's ordinariness, to share his
triumphs and feel his pain, to follow his mundane comings and
goings--and buy the products that the actors who surround him are
constantly hawking.

   The film is an art object and a droll one. The seacoast town,
with its neat rows of pretty white Cape houses, has been conceived
in the manner of the photographer Joel Meyerowitz, with sharp
geometrical lines and light that's both direct and softening. When
Truman and Marlon converse on the beach, their image pops out from
a sky that's like a subtly colored cyclorama. The artifice is
enjoyably creepy, at times reminiscent of ``Invasion of the Body
Snatchers'' and its 1978 San Francisco-based remake.

   Weir makes us constantly aware of the lenses he's using and the
placement of the cameras, which swivel to catch Truman as he moves
from spot to spot. He teases us, so that we're not always sure if
we're watching Truman through Christof's lenses or Weir's. (Are we
Big Brother?)

   The wit is double-edged: The director makes you marvel at the
intricacy of this hermetically sealed universe while priming you to
root for its overthrow--to hope for the innocent at the center to
put the pieces together and find a way to break out of his (velvet)
prison.

   The idea of the Warholesque conceptual artist as fascist is
fun--and not that outlandish, if you caught the Maysles' 1985
documentary of Christo attempting to swathe the islands of Biscayne
Bay in pink plastic. The Christof of ``The Truman Show'' is a
peculiarly loving fascist, a self-styled patriarch who has
convinced himself that the tidy '50s TV universe he has fabricated
is superior to the real one--and that Truman, his ``son,'' is lucky
to have so attentive a god.

   At times, the movie seems like a refutation of laboratory
psychology, of the Skinnerian thesis that positive reinforcement in
a controlled environment yields a particular desired behavior. Will
Truman exercise free will and escape this bland utopia? Will he--to
borrow the imagery of Weir's ``Dead Poets Society'' (1989)--find it
in himself to stand atop his desk, recite poetry, and assert his
independence in the face of an overweening (and potentially lethal)
patriarchy?

   As my synopsis suggests, the questions posed by ``The Truman
Show'' are neither novel nor radical. They are, rather, populist
and quaintly countercultural--daring, perhaps, in an era in which
conformity was enforced and father knew best but not after decades
in which filmmakers and visual artists have scrawled obscene
graffiti on every '50s TV icon imaginable. It's hard to imagine a
less threatening, more commercially accommodating counterculture
hero than Truman, who has no dark side and no rough edges, who is
never even observed to scratch his private parts or pick his nose.

   He will doubtless appeal to the vast segment of the audience
that loves to identify with Forrest Gump or the child trapped in a
man's body in Big. This is a movie straight out of the American
tradition of sentimentalizing children. Go read ``Lord of the
Flies'' for your subversive take on innocence.

   At first, I wondered if a performer with fewer showbiz
affectations than Carrey might have made for a more compelling
protagonist. But the point seems to be that the Truman we first
meet has been molded by his environment into a fake person--that he
has taken on the TV-ish coloration of his ``co-stars,'' and that he
becomes ``real'' only as he realizes the truth. Carrey won me over.
He's terrific--but then, he's often terrific. His mask work in
``The Mask'' (1994) is the trickiest this side of Bali, and his
turn in ``Dumb and Dumber'' (1995) is a wondrous ballet of
cretinousness.

   Carrey is the most inventive screen clown since Steve
Martin--only less deliberate, and also less protected, more prone
to fall on his face when a gag doesn't fly. If Martin can seem like
a clown so hungry for approval that he sweats through his comic
mask, Carrey's vulnerability comes from donning mask after mask in
a desperate attempt to make contact. He recalls the comedians on
the TV show ``Make Me Laugh,'' who work with grim single-mindedness
to break through the stone-faced reserve of contestants. Goofy
faces notwithstanding, there's nothing glib in Carrey's routines.
Performing for his life, he's the most exposed of performers.

   He's even more exposed in ``The Truman Show.'' As Truman, Carrey
has to show that the masks he has worn all his life no longer
express what he's feeling. Dropping them--along with the rest of
his schtick--makes him seem helpless, childlike, bewildered, naked.
The movie might have been a soulless exercise without him. With
him, it has an authentic tremulousness, and also a dread, as if
Pinocchio needed to take on Gepetto and Jiminy Crickett to become a
real boy.

   It's fashionable to dump on the creakily old-fashioned thriller
playwright Frederick Knott these days, but I've always loved his
``Wait Until Dark'' and (especially) ``Dial M for Murder.'' Knott
is a maestro of thriller minutiae. In ``Dial M,'' the key to the
story's resolution is just that ... a key, which a husband removes
from his wife's key ring to leave in the mailbox for the man he has
hired to murder her.

   Alfred Hitchcock filmed Knott's play in 1954 with Ray Milland
and Grace Kelly. It looks OK on television, but it's marvelous when
shown in its original 3-D--when all those props literally pop out
of the screen.

   ``A Perfect Murder,'' directed by Andrew Davis (``The
Fugitive,'' 1993), is a very loose adaptation. It has been sexed
up, opened out, and finished off with a disappointing bang-bang
climax, but it's still good fun--partly because screenwriter
Patrick Smith Kelly respects Knott's construction enough to keep
the machinations with the key and partly because the new cast is
sensational.

   Could there be a better role for Michael Douglas than an aging,
heartless cuckold watching his wife and wealth slip away? The
addiction to opulence, the fierce set of the jaw, the bulging eyes,
and seething demeanor: Douglas has never seemed more at home, not
even in Wall Street (1987). As his young wife, Gwyneth Paltrow
gives Grace Kelly a run for her money in the drop-dead-gorgeous
department, and her acting is better than ever. Life seems to be
breaking Paltrow in a bit, and it's making her seem halfway human.

   Viggo Mortensen, who plays Paltrow's painter-lover, has been a
star-in-the-making for years. Check out Brian DePalma's virtuosic
``Carlito's Way'' (1993)--that's the Swede Mortensen, with dark
hair, as the hapless Hispanic paraplegic whom the cops wire in an
effort to entrap Al Pacino. I worried for the first half of ``A
Perfect Murder'' that audiences would see this mumbling,
affectless, pretty-boy and think Mortensen wasn't much of an actor,
the way they only saw beefcake when they looked at Nick Nolte in
``The Deep'' (1977). But Mortensen knows how to tantalize. The part
is barely filled-in, and that's how he leaves it. He respects its
mystery, its dark heart. You never know which way he'll go, and you
never take your eyes off him.

   For Whit Stillman and, as far as I know, no one else on the
planet, the discos of the early '80s were salons with a back
beat--places where men and women could get dressed up to gyrate a
little and then sit around saying twitty pseudointellectual things,
the music conveniently dropping a notch so as not to force them to
shout.

   The context for ``The Last Days of Disco'' is vaguely satirical,
but Stillman gives no evidence that he could write his characters
any other way; these people seem to be the only sort he knows. In
his first film, ``Metropolitan'' (1990), he chose never to move the
camera: Each shot was a tableaux (barely) vivant, and (tiny) form
meshed with (tiny) content to suggest a larger vision of the stasis
of the privileged classes.

   Here, the camera moves a little but the point of view is frozen:
It's Stillman who seems in stasis now. This is a rhythmless,
stupefying work. A person with no discernible pulse ought not to be
directing a movie about disco. I forced myself to stay for almost
90 minutes and then decided someone ought to boogie.
 &UR; (David Edelstein is Slate's movie critic.) &QL; 
 &UR; Copyright 1998 Slate &QL;  Visit Slate on the Web at:
http:www.slate.com &QL;  (Distributed by New York Times Special
Features) &LR;  &QL;

   ----------

   (To publish this article, call a New York Times Syndicate sales
representative, Bob Farnell, Olivia Vasquez or Connie White, at
(888) 2-NYTSYN (888-269-8796).

   .
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0132 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:11 ',
			header: '
A4790 &Cx1f; tab-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SLATE-MCPHEE-BOOK-REV     06-11 1225
',
			slug: ' BC-SLATE-MCPHEE-BOOK-REVIEW-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
MCPHEE AIN'T WHAT HE USED TO BE 
',
			trailer: '
   ``Annals of the Former World'' By John McPhee Farrar, Straus &AMP;
Giroux; 660 pages; $35.

   It may sound odd to hear the name John McPhee in the same
sentence as the phrase ``cult writer.'' McPhee's career developed
smack in middle of the literary mainstream, in The New Yorker of
the '60s and '70s. In many ways he, along with Joan Didion, Norman
Mailer, and Tom Wolfe, helped define contemporary American writing,
elevating journalism from journeyman's status to something like
literature.

   What's more, McPhee's work is uncultishly genteel. Unlike his
fellow New Journalists, he rarely stoops to the first person. Where
his peers wrote frenzied accounts of Vietnam and racial strife, he
gravitated toward tamer subjects--the young Bill Bradley, for
example, and canoes.

   In this era of Monica overkill, it's not surprising to find a
cult of a writer as restrained as McPhee. Didion, Mailer, Wolfe, et
al., have become somewhat overexposed. McPhee's influence may have
narrowed since his heyday, but he remains the ultimate writer's
writer. In creative writing programs, his focused prose and
reverence for facts are touted as the great model for literary
journalism. Among my acquaintances in New York publishing, McPhee
has better word of mouth than any author I know.

   This month his fans should be moved to even greater awe by a
giant new opus. ``Annals of the Former World'' is vintage
McPhee--it represents 20 years of New Yorker pieces and books,
reworked for the first time into a unified whole. All the
craftsman's flourishes are on view. Sentence by sentence, this book
has more finely tuned prose than anything I've read in ages.

   Which is, as it turns out, its main shortcoming. Things written
sentence by sentence often lack a larger energy. One could even
call McPhee boring--except that the real problem is weirder than
that.

   Here is a key fact about McPhee: He was born in Princeton, went
to Princeton and, with a few exceptions, has lived in Princeton all
his life. The obsessive travels he's recorded in prose are balanced
by a level of stability almost unheard of for a contemporary
writer.

   His working life is just as consistent. He knew at 18 that he
wanted to write for The New Yorker. By the age of 34 he was on
staff, enjoying wonderful privileges--salary and benefits, huge
word counts, permission from his editor to do whatever he wanted.
This is freedom the likes of which American writers may never see
again.

   Early on, he specialized in admiring portraits of successful
young men: Bradley as a star college basketball player, Thomas
Hoving at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It's hard to appreciate
how influential these pieces were, since their meandering
narrative--a leisurely stream of details set off by sharp, dramatic
scenes--helped define the modern magazine profile.

   What stands out about them today is how positive they are about
their subjects. Bradley has a great work ethic and uncommonly good
manners. Hoving is a shining star among art bureaucrats, so
talented that every major New York institution would swap favors
with Satan to hire him. It's refreshing to read a journalist who
doesn't snoop around for hints that his subject ever did anything
sordid.

   Yet the pieces are also suffused with a strange
self-satisfaction. McPhee lays out a picture of young men who
happened to go to Princeton and to possess gifts (a good eye,
discipline) not unlike his own. Then, moving in to eat his cake, he
asks us to applaud their modesty.

   As time went on, McPhee began to focus more and more on the
structure of a piece. Each article, he believes, has an organic
shape. He finds it by sorting his ample research into subtopics,
writing the name of each subtopic on an index card, and playing
around with the cards till he finds the right order.

   To an outsider, the results of this search can seem specific to
the point of absurdity. An introduction to the collection The
Literary Journalists (1984) reports that the Hoving profile was
shaped like a capital Y, in which ``the descending branches finally
joined at a moment of an epiphany during Hoving's college career at
Princeton,and then proceeded along the bottom stem in a single
line.'' In some sense that I struggled to understand but eventually
gave up on, another famous piece, ``Travels in Georgia,'' was
apparently shaped like a lower case e.

   His sense of shape may explain why he was drawn to geology, a
science that interprets rocks and gashes in the earth and weaves
these interpretations into a story of how the world grew. ``Annals
of the Former World'' began in the '70s with a piece for The New
Yorker's ``Talk of the Town'' on road cuts around New York City,
but McPhee knew he was onto something bigger.

   Again, the form preceded the content: He imagined a book that
would journey in a straight line across Interstate 80. He began
traveling around the world interviewing geologists, journeying with
them to outcrops, looking and learning. The result is a majestic
book, filled with fascinating facts, memorable profiles of
scientists, and a profound grasp of the fact that we human beings
are nothing but the merest specks.

   And yet, ``Annals of the Former World'' numbs the brain. It
makes you feel as if you'd been plucked out of your own life and
plopped down into someone else's repressed family. This family's
weird habits include, for example, assuming that when you see
something--a woman, a mountain, an empty soda can--the appropriate
response is not to decide how you feel about what you see but to
think of tautly composed phrases in which to describe it. The
family belongs to the passive-aggressive school of communication.
Its members hint at what they're thinking and expect you to read
their minds.

   To be fair, this last neurosis extends beyond McPhee. This book
may be the grandest embodiment of the principle that guided The New
Yorker through its glory days under William Shawn: that it is the
role of good writing to arrange facts artfully and discreetly, and
not much else. Out of self-interest, I'm as nostalgic as anyone for
the era of big word counts and editorial carte blanche. But Annals
is a good antidote. For all McPhee's expertise at crafting a
narrative, it feels unnecessarily bloated; for all his famous
humility, there's a mild vanity in its fussy perfectionism.

   Above all, there's a sense of strain--of McPhee working hard to
make all these facts sing. And for what? A well-curated museum
exhibit backed by a few smart CD-ROMs could, in a day, drill you in
most of the geology McPhee has to teach. We could get upset about
this, and worry that technology is about to replace fine writing. I
say bring on the CD-ROMs--and free the writers to do something
else.
 &UR; (Sarah Kerr is a regular contributor to Slate.) &QL; 
 &UR; Copyright 1998 Slate &QL;  Visit Slate on the Web at:
http:www.slate.com &QL;  (Distributed by New York Times Special
Features) &LR;  &QL;

   ----------

   (To publish this article, call a New York Times Syndicate sales
representative, Bob Farnell, Olivia Vasquez or Connie White, at
(888) 2-NYTSYN (888-269-8796).
',
			body: '


  By SARAH KERR 
 (www.slate.com) 
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  

',
			paragraphs: '
   ``Annals of the Former World'' By John McPhee Farrar, Straus &AMP;
Giroux; 660 pages; $35.

   It may sound odd to hear the name John McPhee in the same
sentence as the phrase ``cult writer.'' McPhee's career developed
smack in middle of the literary mainstream, in The New Yorker of
the '60s and '70s. In many ways he, along with Joan Didion, Norman
Mailer, and Tom Wolfe, helped define contemporary American writing,
elevating journalism from journeyman's status to something like
literature.

   What's more, McPhee's work is uncultishly genteel. Unlike his
fellow New Journalists, he rarely stoops to the first person. Where
his peers wrote frenzied accounts of Vietnam and racial strife, he
gravitated toward tamer subjects--the young Bill Bradley, for
example, and canoes.

   In this era of Monica overkill, it's not surprising to find a
cult of a writer as restrained as McPhee. Didion, Mailer, Wolfe, et
al., have become somewhat overexposed. McPhee's influence may have
narrowed since his heyday, but he remains the ultimate writer's
writer. In creative writing programs, his focused prose and
reverence for facts are touted as the great model for literary
journalism. Among my acquaintances in New York publishing, McPhee
has better word of mouth than any author I know.

   This month his fans should be moved to even greater awe by a
giant new opus. ``Annals of the Former World'' is vintage
McPhee--it represents 20 years of New Yorker pieces and books,
reworked for the first time into a unified whole. All the
craftsman's flourishes are on view. Sentence by sentence, this book
has more finely tuned prose than anything I've read in ages.

   Which is, as it turns out, its main shortcoming. Things written
sentence by sentence often lack a larger energy. One could even
call McPhee boring--except that the real problem is weirder than
that.

   Here is a key fact about McPhee: He was born in Princeton, went
to Princeton and, with a few exceptions, has lived in Princeton all
his life. The obsessive travels he's recorded in prose are balanced
by a level of stability almost unheard of for a contemporary
writer.

   His working life is just as consistent. He knew at 18 that he
wanted to write for The New Yorker. By the age of 34 he was on
staff, enjoying wonderful privileges--salary and benefits, huge
word counts, permission from his editor to do whatever he wanted.
This is freedom the likes of which American writers may never see
again.

   Early on, he specialized in admiring portraits of successful
young men: Bradley as a star college basketball player, Thomas
Hoving at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It's hard to appreciate
how influential these pieces were, since their meandering
narrative--a leisurely stream of details set off by sharp, dramatic
scenes--helped define the modern magazine profile.

   What stands out about them today is how positive they are about
their subjects. Bradley has a great work ethic and uncommonly good
manners. Hoving is a shining star among art bureaucrats, so
talented that every major New York institution would swap favors
with Satan to hire him. It's refreshing to read a journalist who
doesn't snoop around for hints that his subject ever did anything
sordid.

   Yet the pieces are also suffused with a strange
self-satisfaction. McPhee lays out a picture of young men who
happened to go to Princeton and to possess gifts (a good eye,
discipline) not unlike his own. Then, moving in to eat his cake, he
asks us to applaud their modesty.

   As time went on, McPhee began to focus more and more on the
structure of a piece. Each article, he believes, has an organic
shape. He finds it by sorting his ample research into subtopics,
writing the name of each subtopic on an index card, and playing
around with the cards till he finds the right order.

   To an outsider, the results of this search can seem specific to
the point of absurdity. An introduction to the collection The
Literary Journalists (1984) reports that the Hoving profile was
shaped like a capital Y, in which ``the descending branches finally
joined at a moment of an epiphany during Hoving's college career at
Princeton,and then proceeded along the bottom stem in a single
line.'' In some sense that I struggled to understand but eventually
gave up on, another famous piece, ``Travels in Georgia,'' was
apparently shaped like a lower case e.

   His sense of shape may explain why he was drawn to geology, a
science that interprets rocks and gashes in the earth and weaves
these interpretations into a story of how the world grew. ``Annals
of the Former World'' began in the '70s with a piece for The New
Yorker's ``Talk of the Town'' on road cuts around New York City,
but McPhee knew he was onto something bigger.

   Again, the form preceded the content: He imagined a book that
would journey in a straight line across Interstate 80. He began
traveling around the world interviewing geologists, journeying with
them to outcrops, looking and learning. The result is a majestic
book, filled with fascinating facts, memorable profiles of
scientists, and a profound grasp of the fact that we human beings
are nothing but the merest specks.

   And yet, ``Annals of the Former World'' numbs the brain. It
makes you feel as if you'd been plucked out of your own life and
plopped down into someone else's repressed family. This family's
weird habits include, for example, assuming that when you see
something--a woman, a mountain, an empty soda can--the appropriate
response is not to decide how you feel about what you see but to
think of tautly composed phrases in which to describe it. The
family belongs to the passive-aggressive school of communication.
Its members hint at what they're thinking and expect you to read
their minds.

   To be fair, this last neurosis extends beyond McPhee. This book
may be the grandest embodiment of the principle that guided The New
Yorker through its glory days under William Shawn: that it is the
role of good writing to arrange facts artfully and discreetly, and
not much else. Out of self-interest, I'm as nostalgic as anyone for
the era of big word counts and editorial carte blanche. But Annals
is a good antidote. For all McPhee's expertise at crafting a
narrative, it feels unnecessarily bloated; for all his famous
humility, there's a mild vanity in its fussy perfectionism.

   Above all, there's a sense of strain--of McPhee working hard to
make all these facts sing. And for what? A well-curated museum
exhibit backed by a few smart CD-ROMs could, in a day, drill you in
most of the geology McPhee has to teach. We could get upset about
this, and worry that technology is about to replace fine writing. I
say bring on the CD-ROMs--and free the writers to do something
else.
 &UR; (Sarah Kerr is a regular contributor to Slate.) &QL; 
 &UR; Copyright 1998 Slate &QL;  Visit Slate on the Web at:
http:www.slate.com &QL;  (Distributed by New York Times Special
Features) &LR;  &QL;

   ----------

   (To publish this article, call a New York Times Syndicate sales
representative, Bob Farnell, Olivia Vasquez or Connie White, at
(888) 2-NYTSYN (888-269-8796).
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0133 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:13 ',
			header: '
A4795 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MEDIA-NOTES-BOS &LR;      06-11 0794
',
			slug: ' BC-MEDIA-NOTES-BOS ',
			headline: '
VANITY FAIR GETS A PLUG IN RETURN FOR LEWINSKY PHOTOS
',
			trailer: '
   The punditocracy _ from Maureen Dowd to Wolf Blitzer _ is
already debating whether Monica Lewinsky damaged her image as
alleged victim of a predatory president and a pernicious prosecutor
by vamping for a photo spread inside the July issue of Vanity Fair.
But one big winner is the glossy magazine that ladled out those pix
to print outlets and the networks. Vanity Fair public relations
director Beth Kseniak says Tuesday was the first time that one of
the magazine's features was showcased on the ABC, NBC, and CBS news
on the same evening.

   Vanity Fair's ``PR machine is the very best in the business in
terms of parceling out (goodies),'' says Time magazine deputy
managing editor Jim Kelly. There on Page 28 of Time _ dressing up a
story on Lewinsky's new lawyers' negotiations with independent
counsel Kenneth Starr _ is a full-page Vanity Fair photo by Herb
Ritts of a glamorous Monica. But look closely at the bottom left
corner of that page and you'll see a postage stamp-size photo of
the July Vanity Fair cover story featuring Nancy and Ronald Reagan.
And therein lies an object lesson in the incestuous world of media
self-promotion and horse-trading.

   According to Kseniak, most outlets had to agree to do something
on the Reagan story in order to run a Lewinsky picture. (The letter
The Globe received from Vanity Fair states: ``In order for you to
run the Lewinsky photo, you must also run a cover with a caption or
an accompanying story about the Reagan story.'')

   ``We hardly ever give out inside photos. We pay a lot of money
for our shoots,'' says Kseniak. The reason for asking for coverage
of the Reagan cover, she adds, is ``for identification purposes. It
was just to show that the (Lewinsky photos) were in the July issue
of Vanity Fair and this is what the July issue of Vanity Fair looks
like.''

   Kseniak said that due to timing issues, ABC and CBS were asked
only to credit Vanity Fair and Ritts in return for use of the
Lewinsky photos. But CNN and NBC spokesmen acknowledged that Vanity
Fair wanted _ and received _ attention to the Reagan story as well.
Others say there was no need for a quid pro quo given the
newsworthiness of the Reagan story.

   Despite the tiny play Time gave that story, Kelly says there was
no real deal with Vanity Fair because the magazine had already
decided to run the cover photo. New York Post editor Ken Chandler
says his newspaper had made a decision to run a story about the
Reagans before the Lewinsky photo was conditionally offered. ``As
it turned out, the quid pro quo was something we had already
decided on,'' he says. Nevertheless, Chandler is not happy with
what he sees as Vanity Fair's heavy-handedness, noting, ``I don't
think it's a very happy way to be doing business.'' Globe Living
Editor Nick King says the paper also had decided to publish the
Vanity Fair cover shot as soon as it was available independent of
any demands on the Lewinsky photo. USA Today did publish a Reagan
story, but a spokesman says the paper was presented with no
conditions for running the Lewinsky picture.

   According to Kseniak, that shoot occurred after the former White
House intern met Vanity Fair correspondent Maureen Orth and
mentioned her fondness for the magazine. Kseniak says Vanity Fair
then proposed the photo spread and ``I think the word that got back
to us is that she would be flattered to do it.''

   And despite the interest in the Lewinsky pictures, Kseniak
insists there was no serious debate about whether to put her on the
cover instead of the Reagans, pointing out that this may be the
last time the former president poses.

   The deal worked out neatly for the news organizations that ran
the Lewinsky photos and could legitimately claim that the Reagan
story merited attention on its own. And the talks between
Lewinsky's lawyers and Starr's office provided a news hook to
justify the Monica gawking.

   But no one made out better than Vanity Fair. Although observers
suspect that there may have indeed been a lively discussion over
the relative cover merits of Monica vs. the former president, the
magazine ended up having its cake and eating it too. By going with
the more serious Reagan cover, it took the journalistic high road
while still peddling the more sensational Lewinsky package for all
the ink and airtime it was worth.

   As he discussed the effect of Lewinsky's posing on her legal
fortunes on CNN's ``Larry King Live,'' Washington Post media critic
Howard Kurtz noted that ``she's been milking her moment of
celebrity.'' The same could be said of Vanity Fair.
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By MARK JURKOWITZ  
 c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   The punditocracy _ from Maureen Dowd to Wolf Blitzer _ is
already debating whether Monica Lewinsky damaged her image as
alleged victim of a predatory president and a pernicious prosecutor
by vamping for a photo spread inside the July issue of Vanity Fair.
But one big winner is the glossy magazine that ladled out those pix
to print outlets and the networks. Vanity Fair public relations
director Beth Kseniak says Tuesday was the first time that one of
the magazine's features was showcased on the ABC, NBC, and CBS news
on the same evening.

   Vanity Fair's ``PR machine is the very best in the business in
terms of parceling out (goodies),'' says Time magazine deputy
managing editor Jim Kelly. There on Page 28 of Time _ dressing up a
story on Lewinsky's new lawyers' negotiations with independent
counsel Kenneth Starr _ is a full-page Vanity Fair photo by Herb
Ritts of a glamorous Monica. But look closely at the bottom left
corner of that page and you'll see a postage stamp-size photo of
the July Vanity Fair cover story featuring Nancy and Ronald Reagan.
And therein lies an object lesson in the incestuous world of media
self-promotion and horse-trading.

   According to Kseniak, most outlets had to agree to do something
on the Reagan story in order to run a Lewinsky picture. (The letter
The Globe received from Vanity Fair states: ``In order for you to
run the Lewinsky photo, you must also run a cover with a caption or
an accompanying story about the Reagan story.'')

   ``We hardly ever give out inside photos. We pay a lot of money
for our shoots,'' says Kseniak. The reason for asking for coverage
of the Reagan cover, she adds, is ``for identification purposes. It
was just to show that the (Lewinsky photos) were in the July issue
of Vanity Fair and this is what the July issue of Vanity Fair looks
like.''

   Kseniak said that due to timing issues, ABC and CBS were asked
only to credit Vanity Fair and Ritts in return for use of the
Lewinsky photos. But CNN and NBC spokesmen acknowledged that Vanity
Fair wanted _ and received _ attention to the Reagan story as well.
Others say there was no need for a quid pro quo given the
newsworthiness of the Reagan story.

   Despite the tiny play Time gave that story, Kelly says there was
no real deal with Vanity Fair because the magazine had already
decided to run the cover photo. New York Post editor Ken Chandler
says his newspaper had made a decision to run a story about the
Reagans before the Lewinsky photo was conditionally offered. ``As
it turned out, the quid pro quo was something we had already
decided on,'' he says. Nevertheless, Chandler is not happy with
what he sees as Vanity Fair's heavy-handedness, noting, ``I don't
think it's a very happy way to be doing business.'' Globe Living
Editor Nick King says the paper also had decided to publish the
Vanity Fair cover shot as soon as it was available independent of
any demands on the Lewinsky photo. USA Today did publish a Reagan
story, but a spokesman says the paper was presented with no
conditions for running the Lewinsky picture.

   According to Kseniak, that shoot occurred after the former White
House intern met Vanity Fair correspondent Maureen Orth and
mentioned her fondness for the magazine. Kseniak says Vanity Fair
then proposed the photo spread and ``I think the word that got back
to us is that she would be flattered to do it.''

   And despite the interest in the Lewinsky pictures, Kseniak
insists there was no serious debate about whether to put her on the
cover instead of the Reagans, pointing out that this may be the
last time the former president poses.

   The deal worked out neatly for the news organizations that ran
the Lewinsky photos and could legitimately claim that the Reagan
story merited attention on its own. And the talks between
Lewinsky's lawyers and Starr's office provided a news hook to
justify the Monica gawking.

   But no one made out better than Vanity Fair. Although observers
suspect that there may have indeed been a lively discussion over
the relative cover merits of Monica vs. the former president, the
magazine ended up having its cake and eating it too. By going with
the more serious Reagan cover, it took the journalistic high road
while still peddling the more sensational Lewinsky package for all
the ink and airtime it was worth.

   As he discussed the effect of Lewinsky's posing on her legal
fortunes on CNN's ``Larry King Live,'' Washington Post media critic
Howard Kurtz noted that ``she's been milking her moment of
celebrity.'' The same could be said of Vanity Fair.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0134 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:13 ',
			header: '
A4798 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-AUTOS-ADVISORY-NYT &LR;      06-11 0366
',
			slug: ' BC-AUTOS-ADVISORY-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   ATTN: Managing editors, weekend editors, automotive editors,
business editors

   The New York Times News Service calls your attention to the
following automotive and features.

   Photos, where indicated, have been sent to NYT photo clients.
Nonsubscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204.

   For retransmissions of these stories, please call 212-556-1927.

   ABOUT-CARS-RATINGS (Detroit) _ A look at some of the top rated
cars by J.D. Powers. By James G. Cobb.

   AUTO-REVIEW-BOS (Undated) _ The Korean-made Daewoo won't be on
the US market until September, but it's a lot of car for the money.
By John R. White.

   CARS-WILLIAMS-COLUMN-TEX (Undated) _ OK, folks, here it comes _
the vehicle you've been waiting for since Dodge introduced the new
Ram in 1994 and Ford brought out the new F-150 in 1996. General
Motors finally has caught up, and let me tell you, it was worth the
wait. Chevrolet's all-new, full-size pickup begins rolling into
showrooms late this summer, the first remake of this vehicle since
the current generation, C/K, debuted for 1988. By G. Chambers
Williams III.

   TESTDRIVE-COX _ ATLANTA _ Try as you might, it's really
difficult to couple the usual sport-utility vehicle-associated
phrase ``trucklike'' with the new-for-'99 Lexus RX 300
sport-utility. The words ``luxury car-like'' keep getting in the
way. Maybe that's because of all the leather and real wood that
came with the pearl-painted test RX 300. Then, again, it just may
be the 220-horsepower V-6 engine. By Russ DeVault.

   THE-MECHANIC-COX _ What refrigerant and retrofit is right for
your car and your bank account? You might want to carefully weigh
the following before you plunk your money down. By Nora Carter.

   SHARP-DRIVING-COX _ ATLANTA _ If Lexus is not changing its
image, it is most certainly expanding it to include an entirely new
genre of vehicles. Beginning with the bold styling of its
lightning-fast GS 400 sedan and continuing with the debut of the RX
300 sport-utility vehicle, Lexus is seeking to expand its horizons
to a broader and potentially more youthful customer base. By Linda
Sharp.

   &QL;
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATTN: Managing editors, weekend editors, automotive editors,
business editors

   The New York Times News Service calls your attention to the
following automotive and features.

   Photos, where indicated, have been sent to NYT photo clients.
Nonsubscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204.

   For retransmissions of these stories, please call 212-556-1927.

   ABOUT-CARS-RATINGS (Detroit) _ A look at some of the top rated
cars by J.D. Powers. By James G. Cobb.

   AUTO-REVIEW-BOS (Undated) _ The Korean-made Daewoo won't be on
the US market until September, but it's a lot of car for the money.
By John R. White.

   CARS-WILLIAMS-COLUMN-TEX (Undated) _ OK, folks, here it comes _
the vehicle you've been waiting for since Dodge introduced the new
Ram in 1994 and Ford brought out the new F-150 in 1996. General
Motors finally has caught up, and let me tell you, it was worth the
wait. Chevrolet's all-new, full-size pickup begins rolling into
showrooms late this summer, the first remake of this vehicle since
the current generation, C/K, debuted for 1988. By G. Chambers
Williams III.

   TESTDRIVE-COX _ ATLANTA _ Try as you might, it's really
difficult to couple the usual sport-utility vehicle-associated
phrase ``trucklike'' with the new-for-'99 Lexus RX 300
sport-utility. The words ``luxury car-like'' keep getting in the
way. Maybe that's because of all the leather and real wood that
came with the pearl-painted test RX 300. Then, again, it just may
be the 220-horsepower V-6 engine. By Russ DeVault.

   THE-MECHANIC-COX _ What refrigerant and retrofit is right for
your car and your bank account? You might want to carefully weigh
the following before you plunk your money down. By Nora Carter.

   SHARP-DRIVING-COX _ ATLANTA _ If Lexus is not changing its
image, it is most certainly expanding it to include an entirely new
genre of vehicles. Beginning with the bold styling of its
lightning-fast GS 400 sedan and continuing with the debut of the RX
300 sport-utility vehicle, Lexus is seeking to expand its horizons
to a broader and potentially more youthful customer base. By Linda
Sharp.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0135 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:16 ',
			header: '
A4812 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BOOK-INSECTS-BOS &LR;      06-11 0828
',
			slug: ' BC-BOOK-INSECTS-BOS ',
			headline: '
AN ALLEGORY ON LIFE IN THE HIVE OF POST-SOVIET RUSSIA
',
			trailer: '
   THE LIFE OF INSECTS &QC; 
By Victor Pelevin (translated, from the Russian, by Andrew
Bromfield) &QC; 
Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, 179 pp., $22 &QC;

   Victor Pelevin, 36, is the most prominent of the new generation
of Russian novelists. ``The Life of Insects'' is the third of his
books to appear in English, following ``Omon Ra'' and ``The Yellow
Arrow.''

   Like its predecessors, ``The Life of Insects'' is an allegorical
satire, bleak, angry, hilarious, and humane. The earlier books were
about life in the Soviet Union. This one is specifically about the
chaos that has followed the Soviet Union's collapse and, more
generally, about the entire human condition.

   The setting is a crumbling resort on the Black Sea. Over the
scene of decay and desolation, a loudspeaker broadcasts biblical
consolation from the Bliss of God, Bliss, Idaho, USA. The resort is
inhabited or visited by insects with the instincts and
characteristics of people _ ants, flies, mosquitoes, cicadas,
cockroaches, beetles. Alternately, these same creatures are people
who take on the physiognomy of insects, exhibit their behavior,
pass through their life cycles. The book is a series of fables,
each self-contained, yet each intricately interlocked with the
others. Linguistically and formally, it is a virtuoso exercise that
requires a virtuoso translator; Andrew Bromfield, who translated
Pelevin's earlier books, is up to the task.

   In one fable, a cicada ultimately makes his way to this country
and finds that his life here is not all that different _ it is
still full of effort, futility, absurdity. Quickly he picks up
important American words: ``bla-bla-bla'' and ``oops.'' He burrows
to a vision of the Statue of Liberty: ``The dying rays of the
setting sun tinted the crown on her head red, and she looked like a
huge middle-aged snow maiden decorated with giant carrots.'' At the
end, he makes a cicadian discovery. ``He set his broad &QC; 
lamellae singing of the fact that life had passed in vain, and that
it could only pass in vain, and there was no point in weeping over
it. Then he straightened his wings and flew &QC; 
off toward the purple glow above the distant mountain, trying to
rid himself of the feeling that he was &QC; 
digging through the air with his wings ...''

   Another story is a punning tale about the role of drugs in a
chaotic culture _ the Marshall Plant has arrived to replace Lenin's
Plant for an Armed Uprising and the State Electrification Plant and
the Plant for Building Socialism in a Single Country. The news
comes on the radio. ``King Hussein of Jordan said that he thought
the American plant for a Middle East Settlement was ineffective. He
announced that the Arab nations had their own plant, with which the
international community should become more familiar.'' Ultimately
the characters discover they are themselves marijuana weevils like
they've been complaining about; they find themselves rolled into a
joint that's been lit. In the next fable, the joint is handed from
one character to another, who takes a hit and throws it into a
stream of rainwater on the pavement.

   Some of the tales are screamingly funny, as when two insects try
to make love while the mother of one of them, separated by a
curtain, reads literary criticism aloud. ``Sam felt his proboscis
straightening up under Natasha's dexterous hands, and he looked
ecstatically into her eyes. A long dark tongue with a shaggy tip
divided into two short hairy branches hung from her jaw. The tongue
shuddered in excitement, and dark green drops of a thick secretion
trickled down it.''

   Others stories are grim (and Grimm): A child learns that his
lifelong destiny is to push along an ever-growing ball of dung.
Pelevin takes on love, work, play, the arts, and humbuggery of
every kind. Politics is played out mostly offstage, but it does
affect everything else.

   ``The Life of Insects'' isn't exactly original _ it belongs to
an ancient tradition of animal allegory, and it wouldn't be the way
it is if Kafka hadn't gotten there first. Pelevin can sometimes
seem like a magician trying to conceal behind the skilled
manipulation of colored scarves that he has only one trick. He can
be too self-consciously clever for his own good _ an insect says,
``You know, if I wrote a novel about insects, that's how I would
represent their life; a village by the sea, darkness and a few
lamps shining in the darkness above this repulsive dancing. And
everyone flies to this light, because there's nothing else. But to
fly to those lamps means ...'' But Pelevin is also a genius of
juxtaposition, mordantly funny, and his satire brushes both the
exceedingly specific and the inexpressibly universal. His antennae
sense every absurdity, but register worth; he has a human heart,
and it's in the right place.
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By RICHARD DYER  
 c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   THE LIFE OF INSECTS &QC; 
By Victor Pelevin (translated, from the Russian, by Andrew
Bromfield) &QC; 
Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, 179 pp., $22 &QC;

   Victor Pelevin, 36, is the most prominent of the new generation
of Russian novelists. ``The Life of Insects'' is the third of his
books to appear in English, following ``Omon Ra'' and ``The Yellow
Arrow.''

   Like its predecessors, ``The Life of Insects'' is an allegorical
satire, bleak, angry, hilarious, and humane. The earlier books were
about life in the Soviet Union. This one is specifically about the
chaos that has followed the Soviet Union's collapse and, more
generally, about the entire human condition.

   The setting is a crumbling resort on the Black Sea. Over the
scene of decay and desolation, a loudspeaker broadcasts biblical
consolation from the Bliss of God, Bliss, Idaho, USA. The resort is
inhabited or visited by insects with the instincts and
characteristics of people _ ants, flies, mosquitoes, cicadas,
cockroaches, beetles. Alternately, these same creatures are people
who take on the physiognomy of insects, exhibit their behavior,
pass through their life cycles. The book is a series of fables,
each self-contained, yet each intricately interlocked with the
others. Linguistically and formally, it is a virtuoso exercise that
requires a virtuoso translator; Andrew Bromfield, who translated
Pelevin's earlier books, is up to the task.

   In one fable, a cicada ultimately makes his way to this country
and finds that his life here is not all that different _ it is
still full of effort, futility, absurdity. Quickly he picks up
important American words: ``bla-bla-bla'' and ``oops.'' He burrows
to a vision of the Statue of Liberty: ``The dying rays of the
setting sun tinted the crown on her head red, and she looked like a
huge middle-aged snow maiden decorated with giant carrots.'' At the
end, he makes a cicadian discovery. ``He set his broad &QC; 
lamellae singing of the fact that life had passed in vain, and that
it could only pass in vain, and there was no point in weeping over
it. Then he straightened his wings and flew &QC; 
off toward the purple glow above the distant mountain, trying to
rid himself of the feeling that he was &QC; 
digging through the air with his wings ...''

   Another story is a punning tale about the role of drugs in a
chaotic culture _ the Marshall Plant has arrived to replace Lenin's
Plant for an Armed Uprising and the State Electrification Plant and
the Plant for Building Socialism in a Single Country. The news
comes on the radio. ``King Hussein of Jordan said that he thought
the American plant for a Middle East Settlement was ineffective. He
announced that the Arab nations had their own plant, with which the
international community should become more familiar.'' Ultimately
the characters discover they are themselves marijuana weevils like
they've been complaining about; they find themselves rolled into a
joint that's been lit. In the next fable, the joint is handed from
one character to another, who takes a hit and throws it into a
stream of rainwater on the pavement.

   Some of the tales are screamingly funny, as when two insects try
to make love while the mother of one of them, separated by a
curtain, reads literary criticism aloud. ``Sam felt his proboscis
straightening up under Natasha's dexterous hands, and he looked
ecstatically into her eyes. A long dark tongue with a shaggy tip
divided into two short hairy branches hung from her jaw. The tongue
shuddered in excitement, and dark green drops of a thick secretion
trickled down it.''

   Others stories are grim (and Grimm): A child learns that his
lifelong destiny is to push along an ever-growing ball of dung.
Pelevin takes on love, work, play, the arts, and humbuggery of
every kind. Politics is played out mostly offstage, but it does
affect everything else.

   ``The Life of Insects'' isn't exactly original _ it belongs to
an ancient tradition of animal allegory, and it wouldn't be the way
it is if Kafka hadn't gotten there first. Pelevin can sometimes
seem like a magician trying to conceal behind the skilled
manipulation of colored scarves that he has only one trick. He can
be too self-consciously clever for his own good _ an insect says,
``You know, if I wrote a novel about insects, that's how I would
represent their life; a village by the sea, darkness and a few
lamps shining in the darkness above this repulsive dancing. And
everyone flies to this light, because there's nothing else. But to
fly to those lamps means ...'' But Pelevin is also a genius of
juxtaposition, mordantly funny, and his satire brushes both the
exceedingly specific and the inexpressibly universal. His antennae
sense every absurdity, but register worth; he has a human heart,
and it's in the right place.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0136 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:17 ',
			header: '
A4814 &Cx1f; tad-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-WOMAN-PRESIDENT-COX &UR;  &UR;      06-11 0435
',
			slug: ' BC-WOMAN-PRESIDENT-COX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Like many fifth-graders, Alex Desaulniers dreams of
becoming president one day. But on a recent trip to the White
House, the 9-year-old girl was surprised to see that none of the
presidential portraits were of women.

   Alex, better known as Alexandra, helped launch a campaign
Thursday to increase the number of women that run for president and
to instill realistic presidential aspirations in young girls like
herself.

   ``One of the most important things the White House Project will
do is give us (girls) permission to dream about making the world a
better place,'' said April Bethea, a North Carolina high school
junior who was also at the group's first public event Thursday.

   The project's founder, Marie White, described it as ``a
non-partisan initiative that is going to create a climate where we
can elect a woman president.'' White's last project, ``Take Our
Daughters To Work Day,'' is now in its sixth year.

   The White House Project's first step will be to showcase female
role models and leaders for the benefit of both young girls and
typical American voters. According to research done by the White
House Project staff, 75 percent of American voters would vote for a
qualified female candidate, if they knew who the candidate was and
what her qualifications were.

   A recent poll in USA Today pitted Elizabeth Dole against Vice
President Al Gore for the 2000 presidency and found the race too
close to call.

   The White House Project plans to offer a ballot of its own this
November over the Internet, at malls and at polling places in
Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Ohio and eight other states. The ballot
will list 20 U.S. women and their qualifications, and voters will
be asked to choose the five women they would most like to see run
for president. Results will be announced in December.

   In the meantime, members of the White House Project intend to
get the word out about women leaders and the advantages they would
bring to the Oval Office.

   ``Women bring different perspectives, styles and experience to
leadership,'' said Barbara Lee, chairwoman of the project's board.

   Lee compared getting a woman into the White House with putting a
man on the moon. ``This country will cheer when our mission is
complete and we land a woman in the White House,'' she said.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
',
			body: '

     PROJECT AIMS TO FAN INTEREST IN A
FEMALE PRESIDENT
 &HT;     Eds: Take Our Daughters To Work Day in graf 4 is a registered
trademark.
 &HT;     By KIMBERLY MARSELAS 
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Like many fifth-graders, Alex Desaulniers dreams of
becoming president one day. But on a recent trip to the White
House, the 9-year-old girl was surprised to see that none of the
presidential portraits were of women.

   Alex, better known as Alexandra, helped launch a campaign
Thursday to increase the number of women that run for president and
to instill realistic presidential aspirations in young girls like
herself.

   ``One of the most important things the White House Project will
do is give us (girls) permission to dream about making the world a
better place,'' said April Bethea, a North Carolina high school
junior who was also at the group's first public event Thursday.

   The project's founder, Marie White, described it as ``a
non-partisan initiative that is going to create a climate where we
can elect a woman president.'' White's last project, ``Take Our
Daughters To Work Day,'' is now in its sixth year.

   The White House Project's first step will be to showcase female
role models and leaders for the benefit of both young girls and
typical American voters. According to research done by the White
House Project staff, 75 percent of American voters would vote for a
qualified female candidate, if they knew who the candidate was and
what her qualifications were.

   A recent poll in USA Today pitted Elizabeth Dole against Vice
President Al Gore for the 2000 presidency and found the race too
close to call.

   The White House Project plans to offer a ballot of its own this
November over the Internet, at malls and at polling places in
Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Ohio and eight other states. The ballot
will list 20 U.S. women and their qualifications, and voters will
be asked to choose the five women they would most like to see run
for president. Results will be announced in December.

   In the meantime, members of the White House Project intend to
get the word out about women leaders and the advantages they would
bring to the Oval Office.

   ``Women bring different perspectives, styles and experience to
leadership,'' said Barbara Lee, chairwoman of the project's board.

   Lee compared getting a woman into the White House with putting a
man on the moon. ``This country will cheer when our mission is
complete and we land a woman in the White House,'' she said.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0137 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:19 ',
			header: '
A4818 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-HN     06-11 0467
',
			slug: ' BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-HNS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   The Hearst News Service has filed or will file these stories for
Friday and Sunday. If you have questions, please call Susie McBee
or Tim Spence at 202-298-6920.

   &LR;  &QL;

   (The ``HNS'' tag appears in all sluglines.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   For Friday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CLINTON-CHINA (Washington) _ President Clinton combats mounting
criticism of his mission to China, casting it as a ``principled and
pragmatic'' effort to protect U.S. interests. In a speech, he again
defends his planned participation in an official welcoming ceremony
in Tiananmen Square, where hundreds of pro-democracy demonstrators
were massacred in 1989. By STEWART M. POWELL.

   PELOSI-CHINA (Washington) _ already filed _ Rep. Nancy Pelosi
sharpens her attacks on President Clinton's China policy, saying
the president is ``either in denial or ill-informed about what's
going on in China.'' By JUDY HOLLAND.

   RENO-JASPER (Washington) _ Attorney General Janet Reno says the
Justice Department is probing the case of three white men accused
of beating and then dragging a black man to his death in Jasper,
Texas. The department is considering filing federal charges that
the suspects violated the man's civil rights. By MARK HELM.

   OFFSHORE-OIL (Washington) _ President Clinton is expected to
extend a moratorium on offshore oil development along the
California coast beyond the expiration of the existing moratorium
in 2000. Clinton will announce his decision Friday in California.
By STEWART M. POWELL.

   TOBACC0-BACKFIRE (Washington) _ When Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas,
first offered a marriage tax-cut amendment to the tobacco bill that
he strongly opposes, it appeared he had come up with a tactic that
would kill it. Instead, the move gave it new life, in what Sen.
Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., calls the law of ``unintended
consequences.'' By JUDY HOLLAND.

   COMMENTARY (``k'' category)

   MEANS-COLUMN (Washington) _ If you still think the death penalty
is never morally justified, pay attention to the shocking murder in
Texas, in which three white men stand accused of dragging a black
man behind a truck to his death. This is the kind of horror that
cries out for the ultimate punishment. By MARIANNE MEANS.

   For Sunday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CONSERVATIVE-DEMOCRATS (Washington) _ At least nine
congressional candidates are pro-gun and anti-abortion _ and
they're Democrats. The party has recruited them to run in mostly
rural districts where Democrats otherwise might not have a prayer.
Liberals say they betray the party's core values. But defenders say
recruiting them is the only way Democrats can take back the House.
By DAN FREEDMAN.
',
			body: '

  
 Thursday, June 11 1998     
 Editors     

',
			paragraphs: '
   The Hearst News Service has filed or will file these stories for
Friday and Sunday. If you have questions, please call Susie McBee
or Tim Spence at 202-298-6920.

   &LR;  &QL;

   (The ``HNS'' tag appears in all sluglines.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   For Friday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CLINTON-CHINA (Washington) _ President Clinton combats mounting
criticism of his mission to China, casting it as a ``principled and
pragmatic'' effort to protect U.S. interests. In a speech, he again
defends his planned participation in an official welcoming ceremony
in Tiananmen Square, where hundreds of pro-democracy demonstrators
were massacred in 1989. By STEWART M. POWELL.

   PELOSI-CHINA (Washington) _ already filed _ Rep. Nancy Pelosi
sharpens her attacks on President Clinton's China policy, saying
the president is ``either in denial or ill-informed about what's
going on in China.'' By JUDY HOLLAND.

   RENO-JASPER (Washington) _ Attorney General Janet Reno says the
Justice Department is probing the case of three white men accused
of beating and then dragging a black man to his death in Jasper,
Texas. The department is considering filing federal charges that
the suspects violated the man's civil rights. By MARK HELM.

   OFFSHORE-OIL (Washington) _ President Clinton is expected to
extend a moratorium on offshore oil development along the
California coast beyond the expiration of the existing moratorium
in 2000. Clinton will announce his decision Friday in California.
By STEWART M. POWELL.

   TOBACC0-BACKFIRE (Washington) _ When Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas,
first offered a marriage tax-cut amendment to the tobacco bill that
he strongly opposes, it appeared he had come up with a tactic that
would kill it. Instead, the move gave it new life, in what Sen.
Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., calls the law of ``unintended
consequences.'' By JUDY HOLLAND.

   COMMENTARY (``k'' category)

   MEANS-COLUMN (Washington) _ If you still think the death penalty
is never morally justified, pay attention to the shocking murder in
Texas, in which three white men stand accused of dragging a black
man behind a truck to his death. This is the kind of horror that
cries out for the ultimate punishment. By MARIANNE MEANS.

   For Sunday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CONSERVATIVE-DEMOCRATS (Washington) _ At least nine
congressional candidates are pro-gun and anti-abortion _ and
they're Democrats. The party has recruited them to run in mostly
rural districts where Democrats otherwise might not have a prayer.
Liberals say they betray the party's core values. But defenders say
recruiting them is the only way Democrats can take back the House.
By DAN FREEDMAN.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0138 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:19 ',
			header: '
A4820 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-WHITE-COLUMN-BOS &LR;      06-11 0658
',
			slug: ' BC-WHITE-COLUMN-BOS ',
			headline: '
SINGLE LIFE FOR WOMEN MEANS CHOICE, NOT FAILIRE
',
			trailer: '
   ``All your life you wait around for some damn man,'' Dorothy
Parker wrote, back in the 1920s. Has anything changed?

   Not according to popular culture, which portrays the 1990s
single woman as still waiting for Mr. Right. She may have a better
job, and more money, but no matter how smart and successful she is,
she's stereotyped as neurotic, needy, man-obsessed,
marriage-obsessed, sex-obsessed. See ``Ally McBeal.'' See ``Bridget
Jones's Diary,'' the hottest book in Britain, just published here.
See ``Sex in the City,'' the new HBO TV series based on Candace
Bushnell's acidly funny collection of New York Observer columns
about Manhattan mating habits.

   Real single women are very different, according to Marcelle
Clements, who spent seven years interviewing more than 100
unmarried women, ranging in age from the 20s to the 90s, for her
new book, ``The Improvised Woman: Single Women Reinventing Single
Life.'' Clements found that, by and large, her interview subjects
were tired of the search for a man. The single woman, she writes,
``is not leaving out the possibility of a `miracle,' as it is often
characterized, but eventually, unless she is a retro-masochistic,
at some point she may throw up her hands, saying, `OK, I give up.
And now can I go back to my life, please?'''

   The lives these women ``go back to'' are full and satisfying.
The stereotypes that once were applied to single women are
obsolete, no longer relevant. The enormous cultural changes of the
past five decades, Clements writes, have ``led more and more women,
married and unmarried, to feel that emancipation is at least as
desirable _ and in some cases more important than _ a succesful
marriage.''

   This revolutionary attitude has filtered down to the very young,
according to Clements, who cites a CBS-New York Times poll of
teenagers in which 73 percent of the girls responded that they
think they could be umarried and happy. (Compared with 61 percent
of the boys.)

   Many of the women Clements interviewed said they never meant to
be single, that it just happened. Many haven't ruled out the
possibility of marriage, or remarriage, but finding a man is not
the main focus of their lives. Reading their stories, I find it
easy to understand why some might be ambivalent about marriage.
Recalling her last relationship, Susannah W., in her late 40s,
says, ``So I spent 10 years with him, and sex was a problem, and it
wasn't until afterward that I understood that what he basically
wanted was a blow-up doll.''

   There are more stories in the same vein in the book, but not all
the women Clements interviewed had had terrible experiences with
men. Many said they would like to be married, but very few
expressed interest in traditional marriage, being married ``in the
married sense,'' as one woman put it.

   Having ``a bed of one's own'' was very important to some of the
women she interviewed. ``For me, three nights a week at his house
is fine, then I'm really happy to be home,'' one woman said. For
many, part-time arrangements were more desirable than full-time
commitments. Annette F., 34 and divorced, said of a relationship,
``We have the weekend together, we have a couple of days a week,
and I go home and I'm with the children all week. So far it's
really been ideal.''

   By choice and/or by chance, more and more women are single.
Their numbers are increasing dramatically, due to, among other
factors, delayed marriage, more divorce, less remarriage, longr
life spans. Clements doesn't believe her research indicates that
marriage is on the way to becoming obsolete. She does think it
shows that being single is increasingly seen as a choice, not
something that happens because a woman doesn't fulfill the cultural
``norm'' of getting married.
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By DIANE WHITE 
c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   ``All your life you wait around for some damn man,'' Dorothy
Parker wrote, back in the 1920s. Has anything changed?

   Not according to popular culture, which portrays the 1990s
single woman as still waiting for Mr. Right. She may have a better
job, and more money, but no matter how smart and successful she is,
she's stereotyped as neurotic, needy, man-obsessed,
marriage-obsessed, sex-obsessed. See ``Ally McBeal.'' See ``Bridget
Jones's Diary,'' the hottest book in Britain, just published here.
See ``Sex in the City,'' the new HBO TV series based on Candace
Bushnell's acidly funny collection of New York Observer columns
about Manhattan mating habits.

   Real single women are very different, according to Marcelle
Clements, who spent seven years interviewing more than 100
unmarried women, ranging in age from the 20s to the 90s, for her
new book, ``The Improvised Woman: Single Women Reinventing Single
Life.'' Clements found that, by and large, her interview subjects
were tired of the search for a man. The single woman, she writes,
``is not leaving out the possibility of a `miracle,' as it is often
characterized, but eventually, unless she is a retro-masochistic,
at some point she may throw up her hands, saying, `OK, I give up.
And now can I go back to my life, please?'''

   The lives these women ``go back to'' are full and satisfying.
The stereotypes that once were applied to single women are
obsolete, no longer relevant. The enormous cultural changes of the
past five decades, Clements writes, have ``led more and more women,
married and unmarried, to feel that emancipation is at least as
desirable _ and in some cases more important than _ a succesful
marriage.''

   This revolutionary attitude has filtered down to the very young,
according to Clements, who cites a CBS-New York Times poll of
teenagers in which 73 percent of the girls responded that they
think they could be umarried and happy. (Compared with 61 percent
of the boys.)

   Many of the women Clements interviewed said they never meant to
be single, that it just happened. Many haven't ruled out the
possibility of marriage, or remarriage, but finding a man is not
the main focus of their lives. Reading their stories, I find it
easy to understand why some might be ambivalent about marriage.
Recalling her last relationship, Susannah W., in her late 40s,
says, ``So I spent 10 years with him, and sex was a problem, and it
wasn't until afterward that I understood that what he basically
wanted was a blow-up doll.''

   There are more stories in the same vein in the book, but not all
the women Clements interviewed had had terrible experiences with
men. Many said they would like to be married, but very few
expressed interest in traditional marriage, being married ``in the
married sense,'' as one woman put it.

   Having ``a bed of one's own'' was very important to some of the
women she interviewed. ``For me, three nights a week at his house
is fine, then I'm really happy to be home,'' one woman said. For
many, part-time arrangements were more desirable than full-time
commitments. Annette F., 34 and divorced, said of a relationship,
``We have the weekend together, we have a couple of days a week,
and I go home and I'm with the children all week. So far it's
really been ideal.''

   By choice and/or by chance, more and more women are single.
Their numbers are increasing dramatically, due to, among other
factors, delayed marriage, more divorce, less remarriage, longr
life spans. Clements doesn't believe her research indicates that
marriage is on the way to becoming obsolete. She does think it
shows that being single is increasingly seen as a choice, not
something that happens because a woman doesn't fulfill the cultural
``norm'' of getting married.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0139 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:25 ',
			header: '
A4838 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HOME-PROJECT-BOS &LR;      06-11 0669
',
			slug: ' BC-HOME-PROJECT-BOS ',
			headline: '
PVC FENCING STILL LACKS A TRACK RECORD
',
			trailer: '
   &QL; 
 &QL;

   Q. I like the idea of PVC fencing. But doesn't it crack in very
cold weather?

   MARY DOWD, Arlington

   &QL;

   A. PVC (vinyl) fencing is new, so it has no track record,
although I am sure it has been adequately tested. I don't think it
will crack, since it is more stable than wood and resists excessive
expansion and contraction with the weather. It is put together
loosely to allow for such movement, just as vinyl siding is loosely
nailed to allow for it. But we won't know for sure until the fence
goes through several seasons.

   &QL; 
 &QL; 
Q. A refrigerator given to me has a bit of glue on the door gasket,
and this makes the door hard to open. How can I get rid of the glue
and allow the door to open and close more easily.

   FRANK CAPRARELLA, North End &QL; 
 &QL;

   A. If alcohol or DeSolvit do not work, then try ordinary oil
such as corn oil or any other cooking oil. Apply this to the glue,
leave it for an hour, then wipe it off with a rough cloth. Or, take
a dull knife and carefully run it down the gasket. I think it is
important to remove the glue because it may be making the gasket
thicker than normal, interfering with the opening and closing.

   If that is the case, covering the glue with a piece of duct tape
or other thin tape to keep the glue away from the door is not
likely to work.

   &QL; 
 &QL;

   Q. The kitchen linoleum in some rental property I own has worn
out. What has the greatest longevity: sheet vinyl or linoleum tile?
Or something else? I also have to have the brick house repointed,
at a cost of $5,000-$15,000. That is not too bad, because I know it
is a lot of work; but how can I get a good mason?

   B.Q., Andover

   &QL;

   A. For longevity (virtually forever), use glazed ceramic tile.
Things will break when dropped on it, but the tile can be cleaned
by a swish with a wet cloth. Sheet vinyl generally is more durable
than vinyl tiles. Getting a good mason is a matter of luck. Check
the Yellow Pages, then find out from the Better Business Bureau if
any complaints have been filed against the mason you may hire. If
you know anyone who has hired a mason, ask him how he likes the
job. And so on.

   &QL; 
 &QL; 
Q. My kitchen cabinets are still in good shape, but they are badly
stained by cigarette smoke. Is there a sure-fire way to get rid of
the stains? I have tried a lot of things without success. FRANK
ALBRIS, Winter Haven, Fla.

   &QL;

   A. You didn't mention what you have already tried, but here's
what I'd do:

   Make a strong solution of Spic and Span and water, and apply
this to the cabinets. Let it sit on the cabinets for two or three
minutes or even more, keeping it wet; this will allow the Spic and
Span to dissolve the stains so you can clean them off.

   Or, Simple Green, again letting it sit on the finish for a few
minutes before scrubbing with a sponge and rinsing off.

   Or, this solution: 1 cup ammonia, 1/2 cup white vinegar, 1/4 cup
baking soda, in 1 gallon warm water. As with any cleaner, letting
it sit on the finish for several minutes is more likely to make it
work than trying to swish it on and off.

   Another possibility: Soil &AMP; Soot remover, a sponge that uses no
water. It is manufactured in Worcester and is available for $2.99
at some hardware stores. When the sponge gets dirty, wash with soap
and water for reuse. Let dry before reusing. My good friend Jerry
Morris of Orange discovered this and told me about it. He found it
in a store on Cape Cod, but that is a long drive from Winter Haven!

   &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
Call in your questions on 617-929-2930. Globe Handyman on Call
Peter Hotton is available Tuesdays, 1-6 p.m., to answer telephone
questions on house repair, renovations, and fixing up. The Handyman
chats on line about house matters Thursdays, 1-2 p.m. To
participate, point your Internet browser to www.boston.com and use
the keyword: Chat.
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By PETER HOTTON 
c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   &QL; 
 &QL;

   Q. I like the idea of PVC fencing. But doesn't it crack in very
cold weather?

   MARY DOWD, Arlington

   &QL;

   A. PVC (vinyl) fencing is new, so it has no track record,
although I am sure it has been adequately tested. I don't think it
will crack, since it is more stable than wood and resists excessive
expansion and contraction with the weather. It is put together
loosely to allow for such movement, just as vinyl siding is loosely
nailed to allow for it. But we won't know for sure until the fence
goes through several seasons.

   &QL; 
 &QL; 
Q. A refrigerator given to me has a bit of glue on the door gasket,
and this makes the door hard to open. How can I get rid of the glue
and allow the door to open and close more easily.

   FRANK CAPRARELLA, North End &QL; 
 &QL;

   A. If alcohol or DeSolvit do not work, then try ordinary oil
such as corn oil or any other cooking oil. Apply this to the glue,
leave it for an hour, then wipe it off with a rough cloth. Or, take
a dull knife and carefully run it down the gasket. I think it is
important to remove the glue because it may be making the gasket
thicker than normal, interfering with the opening and closing.

   If that is the case, covering the glue with a piece of duct tape
or other thin tape to keep the glue away from the door is not
likely to work.

   &QL; 
 &QL;

   Q. The kitchen linoleum in some rental property I own has worn
out. What has the greatest longevity: sheet vinyl or linoleum tile?
Or something else? I also have to have the brick house repointed,
at a cost of $5,000-$15,000. That is not too bad, because I know it
is a lot of work; but how can I get a good mason?

   B.Q., Andover

   &QL;

   A. For longevity (virtually forever), use glazed ceramic tile.
Things will break when dropped on it, but the tile can be cleaned
by a swish with a wet cloth. Sheet vinyl generally is more durable
than vinyl tiles. Getting a good mason is a matter of luck. Check
the Yellow Pages, then find out from the Better Business Bureau if
any complaints have been filed against the mason you may hire. If
you know anyone who has hired a mason, ask him how he likes the
job. And so on.

   &QL; 
 &QL; 
Q. My kitchen cabinets are still in good shape, but they are badly
stained by cigarette smoke. Is there a sure-fire way to get rid of
the stains? I have tried a lot of things without success. FRANK
ALBRIS, Winter Haven, Fla.

   &QL;

   A. You didn't mention what you have already tried, but here's
what I'd do:

   Make a strong solution of Spic and Span and water, and apply
this to the cabinets. Let it sit on the cabinets for two or three
minutes or even more, keeping it wet; this will allow the Spic and
Span to dissolve the stains so you can clean them off.

   Or, Simple Green, again letting it sit on the finish for a few
minutes before scrubbing with a sponge and rinsing off.

   Or, this solution: 1 cup ammonia, 1/2 cup white vinegar, 1/4 cup
baking soda, in 1 gallon warm water. As with any cleaner, letting
it sit on the finish for several minutes is more likely to make it
work than trying to swish it on and off.

   Another possibility: Soil &AMP; Soot remover, a sponge that uses no
water. It is manufactured in Worcester and is available for $2.99
at some hardware stores. When the sponge gets dirty, wash with soap
and water for reuse. Let dry before reusing. My good friend Jerry
Morris of Orange discovered this and told me about it. He found it
in a store on Cape Cod, but that is a long drive from Winter Haven!

   &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
Call in your questions on 617-929-2930. Globe Handyman on Call
Peter Hotton is available Tuesdays, 1-6 p.m., to answer telephone
questions on house repair, renovations, and fixing up. The Handyman
chats on line about house matters Thursdays, 1-2 p.m. To
participate, point your Internet browser to www.boston.com and use
the keyword: Chat.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0140 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:30 ',
			header: '
A4844 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GARDEN-COLUMN-BOS &LR;      06-11 0903
',
			slug: ' BC-GARDEN-COLUMN-BOS ',
			headline: '
A WILD THING BECOMES THE STAR OF THE GARDEN
',
			trailer: '
   I must have spent thousands of dollars on rare plants over the
last two decades. Yet a self-sown wild thing called dame's rocket
has been the most admired flower in my garden for the last couple
of weeks. Of course, visitors don't know it's a volunteer. Most
think it's a stand of remarkably tall and early phlox I have
skillfully brought to perfection.

   Dame's rocket does look like phlox, with its tall cylinders of
white or pink flowers. And it smells a bit like it, too, with the
clean sweet smell of scented soap emitted from dusk to dawn to
attract pollinating moths. At this moment huge stands of dame's
rocket (Hesperis matronalis) are upstaging my iris and dwarfing my
heucheras from rare plant nurseries in Oregon. It even vies with
blazing red weigela bushes in full bloom for the attention of
visitors, and sometimes wins. Why not? It's bigger.

   In past years I've let dame's rocket bloom harmlessly and
haphazardly in dark corners and poor soil where nothing else would
bloom. I admired its fortitude and put it on my list of good weeds
for bad locations, along with buttercups, forget-me-nots, wood
asters, and feverfew.

   Last year it made some uninvited inroads into the real garden
and I left it alone. It was pleasant enough, and after it finished
blooming I never got around to pulling it out.

   This spring, I noticed there was quite a bit of the stuff but I
decided to wait till it finished blooming to yank it out. I had no
inkling of the dame's rocket spectacle that awaited me. Fueled by
established roots, tons of rain, and good soil, it roared into
bloom. A plant that grew 3 feet tall in poor conditions reached 6
in good ones.

   The experience was evidence that, despite all my plantings of
rare clematis and new euphorbias, I am becoming a cottage gardener.
That's someone who lets flowers with a will to self-seed have their
way. The result is controlled chaos, a casual, spontaneous garden
that is as much a surprise to the owner as the visitor.

   And that's fine with me.

   The more I learn, the looser I hold the reins of control and the
more I enjoy my garden rather than slave over it.

   When I started, I was a nervous Nellie. I almost stood over
plants waiting for them to bloom. And they, of course, took their
time and usually amounted to less than I expected, given my
pumped-up anticipation. I would call Burpee's and demand to know
why my lilies hadn't bloomed yet, and when I could expect them. I
would spend hours planning color combinations that didn't come off
because the plants bloomed at different times. I used a lot of
graph paper. Gardening was more obsessive than fun.

   But now that the pot is no longer so closely watched, it seems
to boil all the time. One wave of blooms follows another. It's the
result of doing less and knowing more. The weeds are now familiar
and I know which to pull immediately and which to let go awhile,
and for how long.

   Even oxeye daisies, goldenrod, and hay-scented ferns are
tolerated in spots, though not pokeweed, or nightshade. Dandelions
and poison ivy, of course, remain the objects of ongoing battles.
Invasive vines such as Oriental bittersweet, Hall's honeysuckle,
and nightshade are eradicated on sight, but Virginia creeper is
merely trimmed back when it gets overexuberant.

   Mine is not a native wildflower garden because many of the
plants that self-seed are tough exotics that grow wild in Europe or
Asia and have naturalized themselves here. These include European
columbine (Aquilegia vulgaris), forget-me-nots (Mysotis
scorpioides, not the M. sylvantica usually sold in garden centers),
Asian bleeding heart (Dicentra spectabilis), spurge (Euphorbia
polychroma), feverfew, lungwort (pulmonaria), and foxgloves
(Digitalis purpurea). Often the best way to collect such plants is
from neighbors. All you need is a scattering of seeds to get
started.

   Many gardeners prefer to stick with native wildflowers instead
for ecological reasons. These are generally less aggressive, but
many do self-seed for me, including butterfly weed (Asclepias
tuberosa, my favorite), heliopsis, American columbine (Aquilegia
canadensis), black-eyed Susans (rudbeckia), New England asters,
native bleeding heart (Dicentra eximia and formosa), Virginia
bluebells (Mertensia virginica), and bloodroot (Sanquinaria
canadensis).

   The Garden in the Woods in Framingham is the best source for
these, and though they sell plants throughout the season, the big
annual New England Wild Flower Society's plant sale Saturday from
10 a.m. to 3 p.m. (phone 508-877-7630 or 508-877-6574) offers the
greatest selection.

   If you want a tousled cottage garden, rather than one that
bespeaks careful planning, these are the plants to get. My job as a
gardener is to edit. I decide what to leave alone and what to pull
out, what to let go to seed and what to deadhead.

   And I don't fight nature as much as I used to. This has been a
good year for dame's rocket, and a lot of other plants that prefer
rainy springs. Next year will be good for something else. Do I tell
my visitors that the dame's rocket is not phlox, but, technically,
a weed? Of course.

   Guests are usually intrigued instead of disappointed. In fact,
they ask for seeds.
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By CAROL STOCKER  
 c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   I must have spent thousands of dollars on rare plants over the
last two decades. Yet a self-sown wild thing called dame's rocket
has been the most admired flower in my garden for the last couple
of weeks. Of course, visitors don't know it's a volunteer. Most
think it's a stand of remarkably tall and early phlox I have
skillfully brought to perfection.

   Dame's rocket does look like phlox, with its tall cylinders of
white or pink flowers. And it smells a bit like it, too, with the
clean sweet smell of scented soap emitted from dusk to dawn to
attract pollinating moths. At this moment huge stands of dame's
rocket (Hesperis matronalis) are upstaging my iris and dwarfing my
heucheras from rare plant nurseries in Oregon. It even vies with
blazing red weigela bushes in full bloom for the attention of
visitors, and sometimes wins. Why not? It's bigger.

   In past years I've let dame's rocket bloom harmlessly and
haphazardly in dark corners and poor soil where nothing else would
bloom. I admired its fortitude and put it on my list of good weeds
for bad locations, along with buttercups, forget-me-nots, wood
asters, and feverfew.

   Last year it made some uninvited inroads into the real garden
and I left it alone. It was pleasant enough, and after it finished
blooming I never got around to pulling it out.

   This spring, I noticed there was quite a bit of the stuff but I
decided to wait till it finished blooming to yank it out. I had no
inkling of the dame's rocket spectacle that awaited me. Fueled by
established roots, tons of rain, and good soil, it roared into
bloom. A plant that grew 3 feet tall in poor conditions reached 6
in good ones.

   The experience was evidence that, despite all my plantings of
rare clematis and new euphorbias, I am becoming a cottage gardener.
That's someone who lets flowers with a will to self-seed have their
way. The result is controlled chaos, a casual, spontaneous garden
that is as much a surprise to the owner as the visitor.

   And that's fine with me.

   The more I learn, the looser I hold the reins of control and the
more I enjoy my garden rather than slave over it.

   When I started, I was a nervous Nellie. I almost stood over
plants waiting for them to bloom. And they, of course, took their
time and usually amounted to less than I expected, given my
pumped-up anticipation. I would call Burpee's and demand to know
why my lilies hadn't bloomed yet, and when I could expect them. I
would spend hours planning color combinations that didn't come off
because the plants bloomed at different times. I used a lot of
graph paper. Gardening was more obsessive than fun.

   But now that the pot is no longer so closely watched, it seems
to boil all the time. One wave of blooms follows another. It's the
result of doing less and knowing more. The weeds are now familiar
and I know which to pull immediately and which to let go awhile,
and for how long.

   Even oxeye daisies, goldenrod, and hay-scented ferns are
tolerated in spots, though not pokeweed, or nightshade. Dandelions
and poison ivy, of course, remain the objects of ongoing battles.
Invasive vines such as Oriental bittersweet, Hall's honeysuckle,
and nightshade are eradicated on sight, but Virginia creeper is
merely trimmed back when it gets overexuberant.

   Mine is not a native wildflower garden because many of the
plants that self-seed are tough exotics that grow wild in Europe or
Asia and have naturalized themselves here. These include European
columbine (Aquilegia vulgaris), forget-me-nots (Mysotis
scorpioides, not the M. sylvantica usually sold in garden centers),
Asian bleeding heart (Dicentra spectabilis), spurge (Euphorbia
polychroma), feverfew, lungwort (pulmonaria), and foxgloves
(Digitalis purpurea). Often the best way to collect such plants is
from neighbors. All you need is a scattering of seeds to get
started.

   Many gardeners prefer to stick with native wildflowers instead
for ecological reasons. These are generally less aggressive, but
many do self-seed for me, including butterfly weed (Asclepias
tuberosa, my favorite), heliopsis, American columbine (Aquilegia
canadensis), black-eyed Susans (rudbeckia), New England asters,
native bleeding heart (Dicentra eximia and formosa), Virginia
bluebells (Mertensia virginica), and bloodroot (Sanquinaria
canadensis).

   The Garden in the Woods in Framingham is the best source for
these, and though they sell plants throughout the season, the big
annual New England Wild Flower Society's plant sale Saturday from
10 a.m. to 3 p.m. (phone 508-877-7630 or 508-877-6574) offers the
greatest selection.

   If you want a tousled cottage garden, rather than one that
bespeaks careful planning, these are the plants to get. My job as a
gardener is to edit. I decide what to leave alone and what to pull
out, what to let go to seed and what to deadhead.

   And I don't fight nature as much as I used to. This has been a
good year for dame's rocket, and a lot of other plants that prefer
rainy springs. Next year will be good for something else. Do I tell
my visitors that the dame's rocket is not phlox, but, technically,
a weed? Of course.

   Guests are usually intrigued instead of disappointed. In fact,
they ask for seeds.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0141 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:39 ',
			header: '
A4857 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET &LR;      06-11 0391
',
			slug: ' BC-SPORTS-NYT-BUDGET ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Sports stories in sight at this hour from The New York Times
News Service for  &UR; FRIDAY &LR; , June 12.

   For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other sports stories from our
partners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,
Hearst News Service, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,
Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,
San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.

   GLF-ANDERSON-COLUMN (Harrison, N.Y.) _ Sports of The Times
column on the Buick Classic at Westchester: Even as Davis Love
basks in the memory of his PGA victory in Westchester County last
summer, another back ailment claims a golfing victim as Ernie Els
drops out. By Dave Anderson.

   GLF-BUICK (Harrison, N.Y.) _ First round of the Buick Open:
Two-time defending champion Ernie Els withdraws with a back
ailment, meaning golf's two top players, Els and Tiger Woods, are
nursing back injuries heading into the U.S. Open.

   BBA-YANKS-EXPOS (Montreal) _ N.Y. Yankees at Montreal, 7:05 p.m.
ET start. By Buster Onley.

   BBN-METS-MARLINS (Miami) _ N.Y. Mets at Florida, 7:05 p.m. ET
start.

   Other baseball as needed.

   BKC-RHODEN-COLUMN (New York) _ Sports of The Times column on St.
John's hiring Mike Jarvis as new basketball coach. By William C.
Rhoden.

   BKC-ST-JOHNS (New York) _ St. John's makes it official and hires
Mike Jarvis as its new basketball coach.

   HKN-REDWINGS-CAPITALS (Detroit) _ NHL Stanley Cup finals, Game
2, Washington at Detroit, 8 p.m. ET start.

   FBN-NFL-EUROPE (Frankfurt, Germany) _ NFL Europe has been
repackaged and heavily promoted, but is still a work in progress on
another continent. It season ends Sunday amid all the World Cup
hoopla. By Edmund Andrews.

   SOC-WORLDCUP (Bordeaux, France) _ World Cup game between Italy
and Chile. By George Vecsey.

   (This story will be filed within 30 minutes)

   SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGLER (Paris) _ The World Cup once seemed to Roy
Wegerle a brass ring that he would never grasp. But now, at 34, he
has worked himself into remarkable shape and has became a serious
candidate to start as the lone forward for the Americans in the
1998 World Cup in France. By Jere Longman.
',
			body: '

  
 Attn Sports Editors:  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Sports stories in sight at this hour from The New York Times
News Service for  &UR; FRIDAY &LR; , June 12.

   For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other sports stories from our
partners: Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service,
Hearst News Service, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic,
Kansas City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News,
San Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.

   GLF-ANDERSON-COLUMN (Harrison, N.Y.) _ Sports of The Times
column on the Buick Classic at Westchester: Even as Davis Love
basks in the memory of his PGA victory in Westchester County last
summer, another back ailment claims a golfing victim as Ernie Els
drops out. By Dave Anderson.

   GLF-BUICK (Harrison, N.Y.) _ First round of the Buick Open:
Two-time defending champion Ernie Els withdraws with a back
ailment, meaning golf's two top players, Els and Tiger Woods, are
nursing back injuries heading into the U.S. Open.

   BBA-YANKS-EXPOS (Montreal) _ N.Y. Yankees at Montreal, 7:05 p.m.
ET start. By Buster Onley.

   BBN-METS-MARLINS (Miami) _ N.Y. Mets at Florida, 7:05 p.m. ET
start.

   Other baseball as needed.

   BKC-RHODEN-COLUMN (New York) _ Sports of The Times column on St.
John's hiring Mike Jarvis as new basketball coach. By William C.
Rhoden.

   BKC-ST-JOHNS (New York) _ St. John's makes it official and hires
Mike Jarvis as its new basketball coach.

   HKN-REDWINGS-CAPITALS (Detroit) _ NHL Stanley Cup finals, Game
2, Washington at Detroit, 8 p.m. ET start.

   FBN-NFL-EUROPE (Frankfurt, Germany) _ NFL Europe has been
repackaged and heavily promoted, but is still a work in progress on
another continent. It season ends Sunday amid all the World Cup
hoopla. By Edmund Andrews.

   SOC-WORLDCUP (Bordeaux, France) _ World Cup game between Italy
and Chile. By George Vecsey.

   (This story will be filed within 30 minutes)

   SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGLER (Paris) _ The World Cup once seemed to Roy
Wegerle a brass ring that he would never grasp. But now, at 34, he
has worked himself into remarkable shape and has became a serious
candidate to start as the lone forward for the Americans in the
1998 World Cup in France. By Jere Longman.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0142 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:43 ',
			header: '
A4865 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  AM-ADD-NYT-BUDGET &LR;      06-11 1188
',
			slug: '',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Add N.Y. Times News Service budget for papers of FRIDAY, June
12.

   For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other stories from our partners:
Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, Hearst
Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic, Kansas
City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News, San
Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.

   &QL;

   &UR; SCIENCE &LR;  (``a'' code)

   SCI-BRAIN-EVOLUTION (Undated) _ A new computer model shows that
anthropologists have substantially overestimated the cranial
capacity of the homo sapien forerunner Australopithecus and may
have done so for other types of early man. The finding could force
a revision of the theories of brain evolution. By Nicholas Wade.

   &UR; ENTERTAINMENT &LR;  (``e'' code)

   &UR; FEATURES &LR;

   NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER (New York) _ ``Julius Caesar'' makes no
mention of a wino. A Poet, yes; a Soothsayer, of course. But there
is no reference in Shakespeare to a tipsy guy in soiled clothes who
heckles Cassius and wheezes during Marc Antony's funeral oration.
And yet here he was on a recent evening, an attention-drawing
spectator teetering noisily in his cups, stage right, as the actors
in the Expanded Arts theater company's open-air ``Julius Caesar''
on the Lower East Side tried to ignore the interruptions and stay
focused on the re-creation of a 2,000-year-old conspiracy and
assassination. In fact, the intrusions of a city alive are exactly
what one has to expect, even appreciate, when sitting down to
classic drama illuminated only by street lamps, bulbs glowing like
electric pumpkins.

   MET-KOREA-GALLERY (New York) _ The new Arts of Korea Gallery at
the Metropolitan Museum is a compact, glowing lantern of a room,
human-scaled and filled with lustrous things. And its opening
brings to successful conclusion the Met's long-held master plan to
gather the major cultures of eastern and southern Asia in a wide
institutional embrace. By Holland Cotter.

   APPLE'S-SAVANNAH (Savannah, Ga.) _ The genius of Savannah lies
in its contradictions. Here is a little city that is positively
Cartesian in the logic of its layout. Yet the rectilinear
regularity never palls, because the streets and parks are shaded by
magnificent live oaks, hung with garlands of Spanish moss. Could
anything be less Cartesian than Spanish moss, with its inescapable
sultry whiff of decadence? A city whose people, rich and poor, are
so steeped in good manners that drivers of garbage trucks wave at
pedestrians as they pass. Yet there is nothing low-key or mannerly
about Savannah's horticultural trademark, the azalea, whose
Technicolor floral eruptions each spring couldn't be brasher. How
lucky Savannah is! Now the question is whether Savannah can survive
its latest stroke of good fortune: John Berendt's vivid portrait of
the city, its glories and its eccentricities, in ``Midnight in the
Garden of Good and Evil,'' published in 1994, which has spent
longer on the best-seller lists than any other nonfiction book. By
R.W. Apple Jr.

   SONGWRITERS-FAME (New York) _ Songwriters' Hall of Fame
ceremony. By Jon Pareles.

   &UR; MOVIES &LR;  &QL;

   AIR-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Un Air De Famille'' (``A Family
Resemblance''): Cedric Klapisch, director; a French comedy.
Reviewed by Janet Maslin.

   WAIT-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Can't Hardly Wait'': Harry
Elfont, Debvorah Kaplan, directors; with Jennifer Love Hewitt.
Reviewed by Janet Maslin.

   BETTE-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Cousin Bette'': Des McAnuff,
director; with Jessica Lange, Kelly MacDonald, Elisabeth Shue.
Reviewed by Stephen Holden.

   HIGH-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``High Art'': Lisa Cholodenko,
director; with Ally Sheedy, Radha Mitchell. Reviewed by Janet
Maslin.

   GIRLS-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Land Girls'': David Leland,
director; with Rachel Weisz, Catherine McCormack, Anna Friel.
Reviewed by Stephen Holden.

   PASSION-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Passion in the Desert'':
Lavinia Currier, director; with Ben Daniels, Michel Piccoli.
Reviewed by Lawrence Van Gelder.

   DAYS-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Six Days, Seven Nights'': Ivan
Reitman, director; with Harrison Ford, Anne Heche. Reviewed by
Janet Maslin.

   EYES-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``When I Close My Eyes'': Shunji
Iwai, director; with Miho Nakayama, Etsushi Toyokawa. In Japanese,
with English subtitles.

   AT-THE-MOVIES (Hollywood) _ News of the silver screen. By
Bernard Weinraub.

   MOVIES-IN-BRIEF (Undated) _ Capsule reviews by New York Times
critics.

   HOMEVIDEO (Undated) _ Short items on what's news in home video
and short reviews of what's new in home video. By Peter M. Nichols.

   &UR; OTHER ENTERTAINMENT &LR;  &QL;

   HULLABALOO-BOOK-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Hullabaloo in the Guava
Orchard,'' by Kiran Desai (Atlantic Books). Reviewed by Michiko
Kakutani.

   TV-WEEKEND (Undated) _ Caryn James spotlights the weekend's
television fare: On Fox, ``The Magic Hour.''

   THEATER-NOTES (Undated) _ News of The Great White Way. By Rick
Lyman.

   ART-NOTES (New York) _ Art world news and notes. By Carol Vogel.

   ANTIQUES-COLUMN (New York) _ The Antiques Column. By Wendy
Moonan.

   &UR; SPORTS &LR;  (``s'' code)

   GLF-ANDERSON-COLUMN (Harrison, N.Y.) _ Sports of The Times
column on the Buick Classic at Westchester: Even as Davis Love
basks in the memory of his PGA victory in Westchester County last
summer, another back ailment claims a golfing victim as Ernie Els
drops out. By Dave Anderson.

   GLF-BUICK (Harrison, N.Y.) _ First round of the Buick Open:
Two-time defending champion Ernie Els withdraws with a back
ailment, meaning golf's two top players, Els and Tiger Woods, are
nursing back injuries heading into the U.S. Open.

   BBA-YANKS-EXPOS (Montreal) _ N.Y. Yankees at Montreal, 7:05 p.m.
ET start. By Buster Onley.

   BBN-METS-MARLINS (Miami) _ N.Y. Mets at Florida, 7:05 p.m. ET
start.

   Other baseball as needed.

   BKC-RHODEN-COLUMN (New York) _ Sports of The Times column on St.
John's hiring Mike Jarvis as new basketball coach. By William C.
Rhoden.

   BKC-ST-JOHNS (New York) _ St. John's makes it official and hires
Mike Jarvis as its new basketball coach.

   HKN-REDWINGS-CAPITALS (Detroit) _ NHL Stanley Cup finals, Game
2, Washington at Detroit, 8 p.m. ET start.

   FBN-NFL-EUROPE (Frankfurt, Germany) _ NFL Europe has been
repackaged and heavily promoted, but is still a work in progress on
another continent. It season ends Sunday amid all the World Cup
hoopla. By Edmund Andrews.

   SOC-WORLDCUP (Bordeaux, France) _ World Cup game between Italy
and Chile. By George Vecsey.

   (This story will be filed within 30 minutes)

   SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGLER (Paris) _ The World Cup once seemed to Roy
Wegerle a brass ring that he would never grasp. But now, at 34, he
has worked himself into remarkable shape and has became a serious
candidate to start as the lone forward for the Americans in the
1998 World Cup in France. By Jere Longman.
',
			body: '
 AM-ADD-NYT-BUDGET  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Add N.Y. Times News Service budget for papers of FRIDAY, June
12.

   For information and repeats call the News Service at (212)
556-1927. And be sure to look for other stories from our partners:
Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, Hearst
Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Arizona Republic, Kansas
City Star, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Los Angeles Daily News, San
Francisco Chronicle and Seattle Post-Intelligencer.

   &QL;

   &UR; SCIENCE &LR;  (``a'' code)

   SCI-BRAIN-EVOLUTION (Undated) _ A new computer model shows that
anthropologists have substantially overestimated the cranial
capacity of the homo sapien forerunner Australopithecus and may
have done so for other types of early man. The finding could force
a revision of the theories of brain evolution. By Nicholas Wade.

   &UR; ENTERTAINMENT &LR;  (``e'' code)

   &UR; FEATURES &LR;

   NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER (New York) _ ``Julius Caesar'' makes no
mention of a wino. A Poet, yes; a Soothsayer, of course. But there
is no reference in Shakespeare to a tipsy guy in soiled clothes who
heckles Cassius and wheezes during Marc Antony's funeral oration.
And yet here he was on a recent evening, an attention-drawing
spectator teetering noisily in his cups, stage right, as the actors
in the Expanded Arts theater company's open-air ``Julius Caesar''
on the Lower East Side tried to ignore the interruptions and stay
focused on the re-creation of a 2,000-year-old conspiracy and
assassination. In fact, the intrusions of a city alive are exactly
what one has to expect, even appreciate, when sitting down to
classic drama illuminated only by street lamps, bulbs glowing like
electric pumpkins.

   MET-KOREA-GALLERY (New York) _ The new Arts of Korea Gallery at
the Metropolitan Museum is a compact, glowing lantern of a room,
human-scaled and filled with lustrous things. And its opening
brings to successful conclusion the Met's long-held master plan to
gather the major cultures of eastern and southern Asia in a wide
institutional embrace. By Holland Cotter.

   APPLE'S-SAVANNAH (Savannah, Ga.) _ The genius of Savannah lies
in its contradictions. Here is a little city that is positively
Cartesian in the logic of its layout. Yet the rectilinear
regularity never palls, because the streets and parks are shaded by
magnificent live oaks, hung with garlands of Spanish moss. Could
anything be less Cartesian than Spanish moss, with its inescapable
sultry whiff of decadence? A city whose people, rich and poor, are
so steeped in good manners that drivers of garbage trucks wave at
pedestrians as they pass. Yet there is nothing low-key or mannerly
about Savannah's horticultural trademark, the azalea, whose
Technicolor floral eruptions each spring couldn't be brasher. How
lucky Savannah is! Now the question is whether Savannah can survive
its latest stroke of good fortune: John Berendt's vivid portrait of
the city, its glories and its eccentricities, in ``Midnight in the
Garden of Good and Evil,'' published in 1994, which has spent
longer on the best-seller lists than any other nonfiction book. By
R.W. Apple Jr.

   SONGWRITERS-FAME (New York) _ Songwriters' Hall of Fame
ceremony. By Jon Pareles.

   &UR; MOVIES &LR;  &QL;

   AIR-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Un Air De Famille'' (``A Family
Resemblance''): Cedric Klapisch, director; a French comedy.
Reviewed by Janet Maslin.

   WAIT-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Can't Hardly Wait'': Harry
Elfont, Debvorah Kaplan, directors; with Jennifer Love Hewitt.
Reviewed by Janet Maslin.

   BETTE-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Cousin Bette'': Des McAnuff,
director; with Jessica Lange, Kelly MacDonald, Elisabeth Shue.
Reviewed by Stephen Holden.

   HIGH-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``High Art'': Lisa Cholodenko,
director; with Ally Sheedy, Radha Mitchell. Reviewed by Janet
Maslin.

   GIRLS-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Land Girls'': David Leland,
director; with Rachel Weisz, Catherine McCormack, Anna Friel.
Reviewed by Stephen Holden.

   PASSION-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Passion in the Desert'':
Lavinia Currier, director; with Ben Daniels, Michel Piccoli.
Reviewed by Lawrence Van Gelder.

   DAYS-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Six Days, Seven Nights'': Ivan
Reitman, director; with Harrison Ford, Anne Heche. Reviewed by
Janet Maslin.

   EYES-FILM-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``When I Close My Eyes'': Shunji
Iwai, director; with Miho Nakayama, Etsushi Toyokawa. In Japanese,
with English subtitles.

   AT-THE-MOVIES (Hollywood) _ News of the silver screen. By
Bernard Weinraub.

   MOVIES-IN-BRIEF (Undated) _ Capsule reviews by New York Times
critics.

   HOMEVIDEO (Undated) _ Short items on what's news in home video
and short reviews of what's new in home video. By Peter M. Nichols.

   &UR; OTHER ENTERTAINMENT &LR;  &QL;

   HULLABALOO-BOOK-REVIEW (Undated) _ ``Hullabaloo in the Guava
Orchard,'' by Kiran Desai (Atlantic Books). Reviewed by Michiko
Kakutani.

   TV-WEEKEND (Undated) _ Caryn James spotlights the weekend's
television fare: On Fox, ``The Magic Hour.''

   THEATER-NOTES (Undated) _ News of The Great White Way. By Rick
Lyman.

   ART-NOTES (New York) _ Art world news and notes. By Carol Vogel.

   ANTIQUES-COLUMN (New York) _ The Antiques Column. By Wendy
Moonan.

   &UR; SPORTS &LR;  (``s'' code)

   GLF-ANDERSON-COLUMN (Harrison, N.Y.) _ Sports of The Times
column on the Buick Classic at Westchester: Even as Davis Love
basks in the memory of his PGA victory in Westchester County last
summer, another back ailment claims a golfing victim as Ernie Els
drops out. By Dave Anderson.

   GLF-BUICK (Harrison, N.Y.) _ First round of the Buick Open:
Two-time defending champion Ernie Els withdraws with a back
ailment, meaning golf's two top players, Els and Tiger Woods, are
nursing back injuries heading into the U.S. Open.

   BBA-YANKS-EXPOS (Montreal) _ N.Y. Yankees at Montreal, 7:05 p.m.
ET start. By Buster Onley.

   BBN-METS-MARLINS (Miami) _ N.Y. Mets at Florida, 7:05 p.m. ET
start.

   Other baseball as needed.

   BKC-RHODEN-COLUMN (New York) _ Sports of The Times column on St.
John's hiring Mike Jarvis as new basketball coach. By William C.
Rhoden.

   BKC-ST-JOHNS (New York) _ St. John's makes it official and hires
Mike Jarvis as its new basketball coach.

   HKN-REDWINGS-CAPITALS (Detroit) _ NHL Stanley Cup finals, Game
2, Washington at Detroit, 8 p.m. ET start.

   FBN-NFL-EUROPE (Frankfurt, Germany) _ NFL Europe has been
repackaged and heavily promoted, but is still a work in progress on
another continent. It season ends Sunday amid all the World Cup
hoopla. By Edmund Andrews.

   SOC-WORLDCUP (Bordeaux, France) _ World Cup game between Italy
and Chile. By George Vecsey.

   (This story will be filed within 30 minutes)

   SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGLER (Paris) _ The World Cup once seemed to Roy
Wegerle a brass ring that he would never grasp. But now, at 34, he
has worked himself into remarkable shape and has became a serious
candidate to start as the lone forward for the Americans in the
1998 World Cup in France. By Jere Longman.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0143 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:54 ',
			header: '
A4879 &Cx1f; tab-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 1814
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part1of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; FICTION &AMP; POETRY &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ALIENS OF AFFECTION. By Padgett Powell. (Holt, $22.50.) A
collection of stories about characters who reject the bland
conformity of contemporary life. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ALL-TRUE TRAVELS AND ADVENTURES OF LIDIE NEWTON. By Jane
Smiley. (Knopf, $26.) A historical novel of both action and ideas,
whose heroine, a determined abolitionist, sets out to subvert
slavery in person before the Civil War. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ANTELOPE WIFE. By Louise Erdrich. (Harper
Flamingo/HarperCollins, $24.) Multiple intertwined narratives and
similar family relations shape this novel of bliss and bale among
American Indians on the big bleak prairie. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ARCHIVIST. By Martha Cooley. (Little, Brown, $22.95.)
Engagement with historic evil (the Holocaust) and rejection or
avoidance of the past are the poles of this absorbing first novel. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF RED: A Novel in Verse. By Anne Carson. (Knopf,
$23.) A compulsively readable hybrid work by a scholar and poet who
reimagines a lost Greek poem into a destructive love affair between
Hercules and an American boy who is also (somehow) a winged red
monster. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BAD CHEMISTRY. By Gary Krist. (Random House, $24.) Featuring a
headless body, inflammable dogs, a 14-year-old sleuthing
techno-nerd and Beatrix Potter, this first novel is as much a
meditation on the power of secrets as it is a detective story. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BARNEY POLAN'S GAME: A Novel of the 1951 College Basketball
Scandals. By Charley Rosen. (Seven Stories, $23.95.) Barney, a
sports columnist for The Brooklyn Sentinel, is an old-fashioned
guy, a would-be novelist whose misfortune is excessive proximity to
his material when the corruptions of the gray 1950's arrive. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BARNEY'S VERSION. By Mordecai Richler. (Knopf, $25.) Like much
of Richler's fiction, this novel seeks to evaluate Jewishness,
Canadianhood and the struggle for personal integrity; but this time
it's told by a hero whose memory is failing, making the moral task
all the harder. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BIRTHDAY LETTERS. By Ted Hughes. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $20.)
A collection of poems by the widower of Sylvia Plath, giving his
side of their tempestuous relationship. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BODY PARTS: Stories. By Jere Hoar. (University Press of
Mississippi, $26.) Mythologies and manners of the 20th-century
American South, by a keen and fearless observer -- brave enough to
live in Faulkner's Oxford and cheeky enough to create a new member
of the Snopes family. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BRAIN STORM. By Richard Dooling. (Random House, $25.) A tightly
packed thriller whose hero, a lawyer who justifiably hates his
loathsome client, becomes sexually involved with a reductive brain
researcher who can explain anything away. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BRINGING OUT THE DEAD. By Joe Connelly. (Knopf, $23.) A first
novel about a paramedic who is driven to despair by the devastation
he witnesses. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CAVEDWELLER. By Dorothy Allison. (Dutton, $24.95.) A
rock-and-roll singer returns home to Georgia and the children she
abandoned, in the second novel by the author of ``Bastard Out of
Carolina.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CELEBRATION. By Harry Crews. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $23.) In his
16th novel, Crews ponders the effect of a voluptuous teen-ager
named Too Much on a retirees' trailer park. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CHARMING BILLY. By Alice McDermott. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux,
$22.) A life distorted by a lie, and by the expectations of others,
is the matter of this eloquent, unsettling novel, set among
Irish-Americans in New York. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CITIES OF THE PLAIN: Volume 3, ``The Border Trilogy.'' By Cormac
McCarthy. (Knopf, $24.) The concluding volume of the current cowboy
saga by this stubborn, long-winded, fascinating writer (many of his
characters are like that too). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CLOUDSPLITTER. By Russell Banks. (Harper Flamingo/HarperCollins,
$27.50.) The narrator of Banks's novel, a son of John Brown,
renders the challenge (which he failed) of living with an insanely
correct fanatic before the Civil War. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE COAST OF GOOD INTENTIONS: Stories. By Michael Byers.
(Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, paper, $12.) Gently resigned stories,
melancholy and hopeful at once, about loss and accommodation in the
lives of very different kinds of people. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DAMASCUS GATE. By Robert Stone. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) A
pyrophoric mix of extreme religious persuasions explodes in the
face of Stone's skeptical hero in Jerusalem's Old City. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE DOWER HOUSE. By Annabel Davis-Goff. (St. Martin's, $22.95.)
Snobbery, need, coldness, inertia and purposelessness intersect in
this frankly old-fashioned novel about the Anglo-Irish aristocracy,
living on leftovers in the 20th century. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DREAMER. By Charles Johnson. (Scribner, $23.) A novel that
illuminates the life work of Martin Luther King Jr. by exploring
the soul of an ordinary man who is King's physical double. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ENDURING LOVE. By Ian McEwan. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $23.95.)
Another eerie novel by the author of ``The Cement Garden''; this
time the tour de force involves a science writer who is the victim,
or beneficiary, of a homoerotic religious obsession he has done
nothing to deserve. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE EVERLASTING STORY OF NORY. By Nicholson Baker. (Random
House, $22.) The novelist turns his magnifier on the mentation of a
9-year-old girl protagonist; the details, and the comedy they bring
forth, are sharp and clear. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FLYING LEAP: Stories. By Judy Budnitz. (Picador USA, $20.) A
first collection, by a 26-year-old cartoonist for The Village
Voice; her narratives are bold enough to posit a man in a dog suit
who is able to pass, or a high school pep squad that immolates
itself out of sheer enthusiasm. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GLORIE. By Caryn James. (Zoland, $24.) A novel, by the chief
television critic of The Times, that investigates character and the
fear of loss through its widowed septuagenarian protagonist's
struggle to avoid selling her home. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GOD IS MY BROKER: A Monk-Tycoon Reveals the 7 Laws of Spiritual
and Financial Growth. By Brother Ty with Christopher Buckley and
John Tierney. (Random House, $20.) A fictional sendup of self-help,
by two experienced senduppers. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HALF-LIFE OF HAPPINESS. By John Casey. (Knopf, $25.) This
spacious novel's hypersensitive and often uncharitable narrator
analyzes the failure of her parents' marriage as her mother falls
in love with another woman and her father grows becalmed in the
everyday. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HEALING. By Gayl Jones. (Beacon, $23.) A wry and funny novel
in which violence and paranoia are banished by a kind of faith that
is happy with illogic and depends (like analysis) on free
association toward insight. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HEMINGWAY'S CHAIR. By Michael Palin. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's,
$23.95.) Written by a former member of Monty Python's Flying
Circus, this novel tells the story of a sweet-tempered, prudish
postal worker who suddenly goes batty. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HORACE AFOOT. By Frederick Reuss. (MacMurray &AMP; Beck, $25.) The
hero of this debut novel lives as a modern-day ascetic in a town
called Oblivion and, in middle age, makes his first tentative stabs
at human connection. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HOURMASTER. By Christophe Bataille. (New Directions, $17.95.) A
French novelist's fable without a moral, in which 218 clocks drown
out the hiss of nothingness in an isolated seaside castle. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HOUSE GUN. By Nadine Gordimer. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux,
$24.) An elegantly conceived political novel of physical violence
and spiritual turmoil that assault a liberal white family in
post-apartheid South Africa. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HOUSE OF SLEEP. By Jonathan Coe. (Knopf, $24.) A witty,
intricate novel (Coe's second) whose four chief characters live in
engaging, unpredictable communion with dreams. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   IDENTITY. By Milan Kundera. (HarperCollins, $23.) The naive hero
sends anonymous love letters to his lover, setting off events that
illuminate their psychological obsessions and miscommunication. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   IN ANOTHER PLACE, NOT HERE. By Dionne Brand. (Grove, $24.) A
first novel, passionately attentive to nuance, that explores the
transit between the Caribbean and North America through a love
affair between two women. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE INLAND ICE: And Other Stories. By Eilis Ni Dhuibhne.
(Blackstaff/Dufour, paper, $16.95.) Fiction, graced with
head-versus-heart knowingness, about people on whom Ireland imposes
timid choices and straitened lives. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AN INSTANCE OF THE FINGERPOST. By Iain Pears. (Riverhead, $27.)
This intricate literary thriller, elaborately plotted and
superlatively researched, casts real Restoration figures in a
mystery about the murder of an Oxford don (and a much greater crime
to which it is adjoined). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE IRON TRACK. By Aharon Appelfeld. (Schocken, $21.) Tracing
for some 40 years the vanished outposts of Jewish life in central
Europe, Appelfeld's narrator and protagonist compresses big themes
of revenge, recovery and the weight of history into this short
Israeli novel. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (PART ONE ENDS HERE AT 1,400 WORDS; PART TWO _ MORE
FICTION/POETRY SUGGESTIONS _ RUNS 1,300 WORDS. NONFICTION LISTINGS,
AT 1,000 OR SO WORDS EACH, COMPRISE PARTS THREE THROUGH SIX. PART
SEVEN COVERS MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New York Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly-regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (Please note that this article has been double-filed _ into the
``a'' general news and ``l'' lifestyle news files.)  
  
 (To publish any, or all, of the list, it must be purchased _ the
rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; FICTION &AMP; POETRY &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ALIENS OF AFFECTION. By Padgett Powell. (Holt, $22.50.) A
collection of stories about characters who reject the bland
conformity of contemporary life. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ALL-TRUE TRAVELS AND ADVENTURES OF LIDIE NEWTON. By Jane
Smiley. (Knopf, $26.) A historical novel of both action and ideas,
whose heroine, a determined abolitionist, sets out to subvert
slavery in person before the Civil War. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ANTELOPE WIFE. By Louise Erdrich. (Harper
Flamingo/HarperCollins, $24.) Multiple intertwined narratives and
similar family relations shape this novel of bliss and bale among
American Indians on the big bleak prairie. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ARCHIVIST. By Martha Cooley. (Little, Brown, $22.95.)
Engagement with historic evil (the Holocaust) and rejection or
avoidance of the past are the poles of this absorbing first novel. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF RED: A Novel in Verse. By Anne Carson. (Knopf,
$23.) A compulsively readable hybrid work by a scholar and poet who
reimagines a lost Greek poem into a destructive love affair between
Hercules and an American boy who is also (somehow) a winged red
monster. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BAD CHEMISTRY. By Gary Krist. (Random House, $24.) Featuring a
headless body, inflammable dogs, a 14-year-old sleuthing
techno-nerd and Beatrix Potter, this first novel is as much a
meditation on the power of secrets as it is a detective story. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BARNEY POLAN'S GAME: A Novel of the 1951 College Basketball
Scandals. By Charley Rosen. (Seven Stories, $23.95.) Barney, a
sports columnist for The Brooklyn Sentinel, is an old-fashioned
guy, a would-be novelist whose misfortune is excessive proximity to
his material when the corruptions of the gray 1950's arrive. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BARNEY'S VERSION. By Mordecai Richler. (Knopf, $25.) Like much
of Richler's fiction, this novel seeks to evaluate Jewishness,
Canadianhood and the struggle for personal integrity; but this time
it's told by a hero whose memory is failing, making the moral task
all the harder. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BIRTHDAY LETTERS. By Ted Hughes. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $20.)
A collection of poems by the widower of Sylvia Plath, giving his
side of their tempestuous relationship. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BODY PARTS: Stories. By Jere Hoar. (University Press of
Mississippi, $26.) Mythologies and manners of the 20th-century
American South, by a keen and fearless observer -- brave enough to
live in Faulkner's Oxford and cheeky enough to create a new member
of the Snopes family. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BRAIN STORM. By Richard Dooling. (Random House, $25.) A tightly
packed thriller whose hero, a lawyer who justifiably hates his
loathsome client, becomes sexually involved with a reductive brain
researcher who can explain anything away. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BRINGING OUT THE DEAD. By Joe Connelly. (Knopf, $23.) A first
novel about a paramedic who is driven to despair by the devastation
he witnesses. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CAVEDWELLER. By Dorothy Allison. (Dutton, $24.95.) A
rock-and-roll singer returns home to Georgia and the children she
abandoned, in the second novel by the author of ``Bastard Out of
Carolina.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CELEBRATION. By Harry Crews. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $23.) In his
16th novel, Crews ponders the effect of a voluptuous teen-ager
named Too Much on a retirees' trailer park. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CHARMING BILLY. By Alice McDermott. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux,
$22.) A life distorted by a lie, and by the expectations of others,
is the matter of this eloquent, unsettling novel, set among
Irish-Americans in New York. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CITIES OF THE PLAIN: Volume 3, ``The Border Trilogy.'' By Cormac
McCarthy. (Knopf, $24.) The concluding volume of the current cowboy
saga by this stubborn, long-winded, fascinating writer (many of his
characters are like that too). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CLOUDSPLITTER. By Russell Banks. (Harper Flamingo/HarperCollins,
$27.50.) The narrator of Banks's novel, a son of John Brown,
renders the challenge (which he failed) of living with an insanely
correct fanatic before the Civil War. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE COAST OF GOOD INTENTIONS: Stories. By Michael Byers.
(Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, paper, $12.) Gently resigned stories,
melancholy and hopeful at once, about loss and accommodation in the
lives of very different kinds of people. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DAMASCUS GATE. By Robert Stone. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) A
pyrophoric mix of extreme religious persuasions explodes in the
face of Stone's skeptical hero in Jerusalem's Old City. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE DOWER HOUSE. By Annabel Davis-Goff. (St. Martin's, $22.95.)
Snobbery, need, coldness, inertia and purposelessness intersect in
this frankly old-fashioned novel about the Anglo-Irish aristocracy,
living on leftovers in the 20th century. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DREAMER. By Charles Johnson. (Scribner, $23.) A novel that
illuminates the life work of Martin Luther King Jr. by exploring
the soul of an ordinary man who is King's physical double. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ENDURING LOVE. By Ian McEwan. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $23.95.)
Another eerie novel by the author of ``The Cement Garden''; this
time the tour de force involves a science writer who is the victim,
or beneficiary, of a homoerotic religious obsession he has done
nothing to deserve. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE EVERLASTING STORY OF NORY. By Nicholson Baker. (Random
House, $22.) The novelist turns his magnifier on the mentation of a
9-year-old girl protagonist; the details, and the comedy they bring
forth, are sharp and clear. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FLYING LEAP: Stories. By Judy Budnitz. (Picador USA, $20.) A
first collection, by a 26-year-old cartoonist for The Village
Voice; her narratives are bold enough to posit a man in a dog suit
who is able to pass, or a high school pep squad that immolates
itself out of sheer enthusiasm. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GLORIE. By Caryn James. (Zoland, $24.) A novel, by the chief
television critic of The Times, that investigates character and the
fear of loss through its widowed septuagenarian protagonist's
struggle to avoid selling her home. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GOD IS MY BROKER: A Monk-Tycoon Reveals the 7 Laws of Spiritual
and Financial Growth. By Brother Ty with Christopher Buckley and
John Tierney. (Random House, $20.) A fictional sendup of self-help,
by two experienced senduppers. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HALF-LIFE OF HAPPINESS. By John Casey. (Knopf, $25.) This
spacious novel's hypersensitive and often uncharitable narrator
analyzes the failure of her parents' marriage as her mother falls
in love with another woman and her father grows becalmed in the
everyday. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HEALING. By Gayl Jones. (Beacon, $23.) A wry and funny novel
in which violence and paranoia are banished by a kind of faith that
is happy with illogic and depends (like analysis) on free
association toward insight. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HEMINGWAY'S CHAIR. By Michael Palin. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's,
$23.95.) Written by a former member of Monty Python's Flying
Circus, this novel tells the story of a sweet-tempered, prudish
postal worker who suddenly goes batty. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HORACE AFOOT. By Frederick Reuss. (MacMurray &AMP; Beck, $25.) The
hero of this debut novel lives as a modern-day ascetic in a town
called Oblivion and, in middle age, makes his first tentative stabs
at human connection. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HOURMASTER. By Christophe Bataille. (New Directions, $17.95.) A
French novelist's fable without a moral, in which 218 clocks drown
out the hiss of nothingness in an isolated seaside castle. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HOUSE GUN. By Nadine Gordimer. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux,
$24.) An elegantly conceived political novel of physical violence
and spiritual turmoil that assault a liberal white family in
post-apartheid South Africa. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HOUSE OF SLEEP. By Jonathan Coe. (Knopf, $24.) A witty,
intricate novel (Coe's second) whose four chief characters live in
engaging, unpredictable communion with dreams. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   IDENTITY. By Milan Kundera. (HarperCollins, $23.) The naive hero
sends anonymous love letters to his lover, setting off events that
illuminate their psychological obsessions and miscommunication. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   IN ANOTHER PLACE, NOT HERE. By Dionne Brand. (Grove, $24.) A
first novel, passionately attentive to nuance, that explores the
transit between the Caribbean and North America through a love
affair between two women. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE INLAND ICE: And Other Stories. By Eilis Ni Dhuibhne.
(Blackstaff/Dufour, paper, $16.95.) Fiction, graced with
head-versus-heart knowingness, about people on whom Ireland imposes
timid choices and straitened lives. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AN INSTANCE OF THE FINGERPOST. By Iain Pears. (Riverhead, $27.)
This intricate literary thriller, elaborately plotted and
superlatively researched, casts real Restoration figures in a
mystery about the murder of an Oxford don (and a much greater crime
to which it is adjoined). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE IRON TRACK. By Aharon Appelfeld. (Schocken, $21.) Tracing
for some 40 years the vanished outposts of Jewish life in central
Europe, Appelfeld's narrator and protagonist compresses big themes
of revenge, recovery and the weight of history into this short
Israeli novel. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (PART ONE ENDS HERE AT 1,400 WORDS; PART TWO _ MORE
FICTION/POETRY SUGGESTIONS _ RUNS 1,300 WORDS. NONFICTION LISTINGS,
AT 1,000 OR SO WORDS EACH, COMPRISE PARTS THREE THROUGH SIX. PART
SEVEN COVERS MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0144 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:54 ',
			header: '
A4883 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-NYT &LR;      06-11 0849
',
			slug: ' BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-NYT ',
			headline: '
ITALY, BEHIND LATE BAGGIO GOAL, RALLIES TO TIE CHILE, 2-2  
 (JT) 
',
			trailer: '
   BORDEAUX, France _ Two formerly exiled forces collided Thursday,
releasing pent-up energy and expectations on the second day of the
1998 World Cup.

   Chile, banned from the 1990 World Cup and unable to qualify for
the two surrounding Cups, made a memorable return with a 2-2 draw
with Italy.

   The other exile was Roberto Baggio, dropped from the Italian
team for much of the last four years. He made a stirring return
with a nifty early assist and a late penalty-kick goal that saved
the evening for Italy.

   Chile should have been happy with the grief it caused Italy, as
both teams came out with 1 point in a group that also includes
Cameroon and Austria. The South Americans dominated the game behind
the Za-Sa Show of Ivan Zamorano and Marcelo Salas, a more cohesive
offensive tandem than anything the Italians could produce.

   The two Chilean forwards demonstrated why they are paid the big
bucks, or rather the large lira, to play in Italy. The powerful
Zamorano has already made his mark at Inter of Milan, while the
silky Salas is moving from River Plate of Argentina to Lazio of
Rome.

   The two scored 23 goals between them in Chile's qualifying
games, and they kept up the pressure Thursday, as sharp rain
showers and gusts of wind blasted through, churning the wide
Garonne River into a muddy froth.

   This was Chile's first World Cup game since 1982, when a
promising squad was eliminated after three straight losses to
Germany, Austria and Algeria. Chile was banned from the World Cup
after the entire team walked off the field while Chile was losing
to Brazil in a 1989 qualifying game. Chile's goalkeeper, Roberto
Rojas, faked an injury after a flare or firecracker landed in the
vicinity of the goal.

   Thursday, the nation came back, although Baggio was also making
a comeback of a personal nature. After saving Italy with creative
and timely goals in the 1994 World Cup, Baggio missed the penalty
kick in the shootout that gave the championship to Brazil. That set
off a whiff of failure that wound up with Baggio's being dropped
from the national squad by the previous coach, the mysterious
Arrigo Sacchi, and Baggio also changed clubs from Juventus to AC
Milan to Bologna.

   This spring, Cesare Maldini, the coach, was secure enough to
bring Baggio back, and when Alessandro DelPiero injured his thigh
muscle and could not play, Baggio was named to start.

   The introverted little star, once known as Il Divino Codino _
the Divine Ponytail _ has long since cut off the hank of hair,
making him seem somewhat less exotic and fragile. He played a vital
90 minutes Thursday.

   Maldini's faith paid off in the 10th minute. Paolo Maldini, the
coach's son, lofted a long supple pass that caught Baggio in full
stride down the left side. The slender artist controlled the ball
and flicked a left-footed pass to the center, a perfect lead for
Christian Vieri, who knocked the ball home.

   Italy held off the Za-Sa show for a long time, but seemingly got
distracted. Dino Baggio, no relation to Roberto, tried a booming
35-yard shot in extra time rather than hold the ball. Chile came
downfield and scored at three minutes of injury time, as Zamorano
made a nice header pass to Pedro Reyes, who fed Salas for the tying
goal that haunted Italy's trudge to the lockers at halftime.

   ``We started off well, then slacked off in the 48th minute, and
what's more we were punished for it,'' Cesare Maldini said. ``We
came back on the pitch fearing the worst and it took a while to
find our feet.''

   The letdown hurt Italy as Salas outleaped the defense for a
header goal five minutes into the second half. The Za-Sa Show kept
Italy distracted late into the game, but just as he had against
Nigeria and Spain and Bulgaria in 1994, Baggio saved the day.

   In the 85th minute, Baggio dribbled the ball on the right side
and chipped the ball toward the defender, Ronaldo Fuentes _ or
rather toward the right arm of Fuentes, hitting him well below the
shoulder. The rules say a handball must be intentional, and it is
quite possible that the only intent on the play came from the wily
Baggio, but the referee called a penalty kick for Italy.

   Baggio, whose last major penalty kick for Italy had ended so
brutally, did not miss this time, and the match was tied. For what
it's worth, Fuentes said he did not touch the ball on purpose.

   In the final minutes, both Zamorano and Salas were hammered to
the ground by two Italian defenders, Alessandro Nesta of Lazio and
Fabio Cannavaro of Parma. The Chilean fans whistled angrily, and
somebody knocked down a barrier in front of the Chilean bench,
although it was not as bad as the so-called Battle of Santiago
between these two nations during the 1962 World Cup in Chile, when
players were ejected for fighting. This time, both squads mingled
after the final whistle, and applauded the crowd. For both teams,
the oppressive mood of exile was over.
',
			body: '


   By GEORGE VECSEY   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   BORDEAUX, France _ Two formerly exiled forces collided Thursday,
releasing pent-up energy and expectations on the second day of the
1998 World Cup.

   Chile, banned from the 1990 World Cup and unable to qualify for
the two surrounding Cups, made a memorable return with a 2-2 draw
with Italy.

   The other exile was Roberto Baggio, dropped from the Italian
team for much of the last four years. He made a stirring return
with a nifty early assist and a late penalty-kick goal that saved
the evening for Italy.

   Chile should have been happy with the grief it caused Italy, as
both teams came out with 1 point in a group that also includes
Cameroon and Austria. The South Americans dominated the game behind
the Za-Sa Show of Ivan Zamorano and Marcelo Salas, a more cohesive
offensive tandem than anything the Italians could produce.

   The two Chilean forwards demonstrated why they are paid the big
bucks, or rather the large lira, to play in Italy. The powerful
Zamorano has already made his mark at Inter of Milan, while the
silky Salas is moving from River Plate of Argentina to Lazio of
Rome.

   The two scored 23 goals between them in Chile's qualifying
games, and they kept up the pressure Thursday, as sharp rain
showers and gusts of wind blasted through, churning the wide
Garonne River into a muddy froth.

   This was Chile's first World Cup game since 1982, when a
promising squad was eliminated after three straight losses to
Germany, Austria and Algeria. Chile was banned from the World Cup
after the entire team walked off the field while Chile was losing
to Brazil in a 1989 qualifying game. Chile's goalkeeper, Roberto
Rojas, faked an injury after a flare or firecracker landed in the
vicinity of the goal.

   Thursday, the nation came back, although Baggio was also making
a comeback of a personal nature. After saving Italy with creative
and timely goals in the 1994 World Cup, Baggio missed the penalty
kick in the shootout that gave the championship to Brazil. That set
off a whiff of failure that wound up with Baggio's being dropped
from the national squad by the previous coach, the mysterious
Arrigo Sacchi, and Baggio also changed clubs from Juventus to AC
Milan to Bologna.

   This spring, Cesare Maldini, the coach, was secure enough to
bring Baggio back, and when Alessandro DelPiero injured his thigh
muscle and could not play, Baggio was named to start.

   The introverted little star, once known as Il Divino Codino _
the Divine Ponytail _ has long since cut off the hank of hair,
making him seem somewhat less exotic and fragile. He played a vital
90 minutes Thursday.

   Maldini's faith paid off in the 10th minute. Paolo Maldini, the
coach's son, lofted a long supple pass that caught Baggio in full
stride down the left side. The slender artist controlled the ball
and flicked a left-footed pass to the center, a perfect lead for
Christian Vieri, who knocked the ball home.

   Italy held off the Za-Sa show for a long time, but seemingly got
distracted. Dino Baggio, no relation to Roberto, tried a booming
35-yard shot in extra time rather than hold the ball. Chile came
downfield and scored at three minutes of injury time, as Zamorano
made a nice header pass to Pedro Reyes, who fed Salas for the tying
goal that haunted Italy's trudge to the lockers at halftime.

   ``We started off well, then slacked off in the 48th minute, and
what's more we were punished for it,'' Cesare Maldini said. ``We
came back on the pitch fearing the worst and it took a while to
find our feet.''

   The letdown hurt Italy as Salas outleaped the defense for a
header goal five minutes into the second half. The Za-Sa Show kept
Italy distracted late into the game, but just as he had against
Nigeria and Spain and Bulgaria in 1994, Baggio saved the day.

   In the 85th minute, Baggio dribbled the ball on the right side
and chipped the ball toward the defender, Ronaldo Fuentes _ or
rather toward the right arm of Fuentes, hitting him well below the
shoulder. The rules say a handball must be intentional, and it is
quite possible that the only intent on the play came from the wily
Baggio, but the referee called a penalty kick for Italy.

   Baggio, whose last major penalty kick for Italy had ended so
brutally, did not miss this time, and the match was tied. For what
it's worth, Fuentes said he did not touch the ball on purpose.

   In the final minutes, both Zamorano and Salas were hammered to
the ground by two Italian defenders, Alessandro Nesta of Lazio and
Fabio Cannavaro of Parma. The Chilean fans whistled angrily, and
somebody knocked down a barrier in front of the Chilean bench,
although it was not as bad as the so-called Battle of Santiago
between these two nations during the 1962 World Cup in Chile, when
players were ejected for fighting. This time, both squads mingled
after the final whistle, and applauded the crowd. For both teams,
the oppressive mood of exile was over.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0145 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:56 ',
			header: '
A4890 &Cx1f; tab-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 1747
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part2of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; Israeli novel. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (FICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   JACK MAGGS. By Peter Carey. (Knopf, $24.) A sly, enticing,
sophisticated sort of paranovel, in which the characters are
fun-house images of real and imaginary people in the life and work
of Dickens, especially those associated with ``Great
Expectations.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KALIMANTAAN. By C. S. Godshalk. (Marian Wood/Holt, $25.) A
formidably imaginative first novel in which a man's idealized love
for his dead mother powers British imperialism in Borneo. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KAROO. By Steve Tesich. (Harcourt Brace, $24.) A Hollywood
script doctor destroys another man's great film to further a
personal agenda in this posthumous novel by the screenwriter of
``Breaking Away.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE KNIFE THROWER: And Other Stories. By Steven Millhauser.
(Crown, $22.) Stories whose characters -- dreamers, artists,
illusionists -- all run to excess as the author explores our
responses to the products and projections of our own minds. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LEONARDO'S HORSE. By R. M. Berry. (FC2 Press, paper, $13.95.)
Leonardo da Vinci is cast as a failure, a great prodigy of little
accomplishment, in a novel-within-this-novel (the fictitious
author, an academic, isn't doing so well himself). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A LOVER'S ALMANAC. By Maureen Howard. (Viking, $24.95.) Taking
as her model the ``Old Farmer's Almanac,'' the novelist plumbs the
shallows of millennial irrationality as she follows two young
members of Generation X into the year 2000. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   MENDEL'S DWARF. By Simon Mawer. (Harmony, $23.) Moral,
historical and philosophical considerations about genetics pervade
this thematically ambitious novel whose hero is a dwarf and a
distant relative of Gregor Mendel, the monk who founded genetics. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MOORING OF STARTING OUT: The First Five Books of Poetry. By
John Ashbery. (Ecco, $25.) This collection of the poet's work from
1956 to 1972 demonstrates Ashbery's tireless effort to remain
poetically fresh. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NIGHT TRAIN. By Martin Amis. (Harmony, $20.) Amis's ninth novel
is a tightly constructed, darkly romantic police procedural about a
suicide; it defers to genre conventions while probing deeply into
questions of human motivation. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NOBODY'S GIRL. By Antonya Nelson. (Scribner, $22.) A tartly
phrased novel of moral and social isolation whose heroine,
self-exiled in one of New Mexico's empty quarters, has broken off
connections after her mother's death. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NOSFERATU. By Jim Shepard. (Knopf, $22.) This novel, whose hero
sees himself as a vampire lover of sorts, imaginatively
reconstructs the amorous and creative lives of the director F. W.
Murnau. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AN OCTAVE ABOVE THUNDER: New and Selected Poems. By Carol Muske.
(Penguin, paper, $16.95.) Work culled from over two decades of
writing by a poet who invites readers to peer over her shoulder and
see how she's doing. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OYSTER. By Janette Turner Hospital. (Norton, $25.95.) A
half-surreal novel set in a dreamscape Australia, populated by
frontiersmen and cultists whose consciousness, warped by extreme
conditions, ignites a combustive disaster. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PARADISE. By Toni Morrison. (Knopf, $25.) A characteristically
ambitious, troubling, complicated novel set in a small black utopia
whose ineluctable encounter with the ``real'' world has both tragic
and regenerative consequences. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A PATCHWORK PLANET. By Anne Tyler. (Knopf, $24.) Tyler's 14th
novel concerns a 29-year-old underachiever, estranged from his
family and subject to terrible attacks of clarity. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PRESTON FALLS. By David Gates. (Knopf, $25.) A novel whose
hero's only available mode is the relentless irony of denial (he
works in public relations), while his wife's equally monotone
program is the simulation of normality. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   QUARANTINE. By Jim Crace. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $23.)
Expanding on the accounts of the Gospels, this novel by a wizard at
rendering other times and cultures reinterprets Jesus' 40-day fast
in the wilderness at the beginning of His mission. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   RIVEN ROCK. By T. Coraghessan Boyle. (Viking, $24.95.) A rich
madman lives cloistered away from women for 20 years because he
both loves and hates them far too much in this purplish novel
starring some real early-20th-century Americans. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A SCIENTIFIC ROMANCE. By Ronald Wright. (Picador USA, $23.) A
skillful, thoughtful fantasy of the postmillennium whose hero,
traveling in H. G. Wells's very own time machine, discovers a
Thames flowing through ``steaming everglades'' and harboring
crocodiles in A.D. 2500. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SELECTED POEMS. By Harvey Shapiro. (Wesleyan
University/University Press of New England, paper, $12.95.) Fresh,
informal, metrically traditional work that balances life and
experience in two countries, of which one is New York City and the
other is Judaism. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SHROUD OF THE GNOMES: Poems. By James Tate. (Ecco, $23.) Beneath
a nearly impenetrable modern surface, tried-and-true pieties:
peace, happiness, human connection and the pleasures of pure
ordinariness are possible after pain. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SINGING INTO THE PIANO. By Ted Mooney. (Knopf, $25.) Sex is the
ultimate transaction in this novel about American-Mexican
relations. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SKY, THE STARS, THE WILDERNESS. By Rick Bass. (Houghton
Mifflin, $23.) Three novellas of diverse character that offer an
unsentimental but ecstatic portrayal of the physical world. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. By Gore Vidal. (Random House, $23.)
In his 23d novel, Vidal offers a larky and thought-provoking
excursion through American history. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SOLIBO MAGNIFICENT. By Patrick Chamoiseau. (Pantheon, $23.)
Published in French in 1988, this novel concerns a storyteller
whose death from strangulation by words is an emblem of French in
conflict with Creole and of the author's will to pick up where the
Caribbean oral tradition left off. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SPENDING: A Utopian Divertimento. By Mary Gordon. (Scribner,
$24.) A best-of-all-worlds fantasy novel in which a painter, a
middle-aged woman, faces a choice between worldly comfort
(including sex and money) and the artistic struggle, and manages to
have it both ways. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SPRINGS OF AFFECTION: Stories of Dublin. By Maeve Brennan.
(Houghton Mifflin, $24.) A posthumous collection about the strength
and weakness of insularity, the small joys and unrealized dreams of
a single corner of Dublin. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   STARTING OUT IN THE EVENING. By Brian Morton. (Crown, $25.) The
forcefully ordered life of an aging, out-of-print novelist is
suddenly ruptured when he finds himself the subject of a sensitive
young woman's master's thesis. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SUMMER AT GAGLOW. By Esther Freud. (Ecco, $23.95.) A shrewd,
absorbing novel about a family whose notions of ``home'' change as
their relations with the onetime family estate in Germany alter. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TALES FROM OVID. By Ted Hughes. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $25.)
The mellifluities of the Roman poet subjected to the rough
sensibilities of the English poet's often dark and stormy
Yorkshire. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THIS SIDE OF BRIGHTNESS. By Colum McCann. (Metropolitan/Holt,
$23.) A painful, disturbing novel in which three generations of a
troubled family decline from constructing the New York subway
system to inhabiting its dark tunnels. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TWO GUYS FROM VERONA: A Novel of Suburbia. By James Kaplan.
(Atlantic Monthly, $25.) A slightly futuristic account, set in
1999-2000, of the enduring friendship of two men whose lives
diverged after high school; one is a model businessman, the other
the town slacker. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ULTIMATE INTIMACY. By Ivan Klima. (Grove, $25.) The Czech
novelist explores issues of trust, forgiveness and love in this
novel about a pastor who has an extramarital affair. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   VISITORS. By Anita Brookner. (Random House, $23.) In a novel
largely unobscured by the excess baggage of plot, Brookner
illuminates the private dignity of a 70-year-old widow as she
struggles to survive the exquisite alienation of age. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WHITE BOYS: Stories. By Reginald McKnight. (Holt, $23.) A
collection of stories about members of the black middle class that
reflects the complexities of racial interactions. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A WIDOW FOR ONE YEAR. By John Irving. (Random House, $27.95.) A
large, entertaining novel with four main characters, all writers,
and lots of sexual farce and occasional brutality. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A WORKING GIRL CAN'T WIN: And Other Poems. By Deborah Garrison.
(Random House, $15.) Lyrics that form a kind of whole, with stories
at their centers, written around the axes of work and love, small
frustrations and larger losses. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART TWO (1,300 WORDS). PARTS THREE THROUGH SIX _ A
LIST OF NONFICTION RECOMMENDATIONS (AT 1,000 WORDS OR SO EACH) _
FOLLOW. PART SEVEN COMPRISES MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION
TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New Yor Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (Please note that this article has been double-filed _ into the
``a'' general news and ``l'' lifestyle news files.)  
  
 (To publish any part of the list, it must be purchased _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; Israeli novel. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (FICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   JACK MAGGS. By Peter Carey. (Knopf, $24.) A sly, enticing,
sophisticated sort of paranovel, in which the characters are
fun-house images of real and imaginary people in the life and work
of Dickens, especially those associated with ``Great
Expectations.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KALIMANTAAN. By C. S. Godshalk. (Marian Wood/Holt, $25.) A
formidably imaginative first novel in which a man's idealized love
for his dead mother powers British imperialism in Borneo. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KAROO. By Steve Tesich. (Harcourt Brace, $24.) A Hollywood
script doctor destroys another man's great film to further a
personal agenda in this posthumous novel by the screenwriter of
``Breaking Away.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE KNIFE THROWER: And Other Stories. By Steven Millhauser.
(Crown, $22.) Stories whose characters -- dreamers, artists,
illusionists -- all run to excess as the author explores our
responses to the products and projections of our own minds. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LEONARDO'S HORSE. By R. M. Berry. (FC2 Press, paper, $13.95.)
Leonardo da Vinci is cast as a failure, a great prodigy of little
accomplishment, in a novel-within-this-novel (the fictitious
author, an academic, isn't doing so well himself). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A LOVER'S ALMANAC. By Maureen Howard. (Viking, $24.95.) Taking
as her model the ``Old Farmer's Almanac,'' the novelist plumbs the
shallows of millennial irrationality as she follows two young
members of Generation X into the year 2000. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   MENDEL'S DWARF. By Simon Mawer. (Harmony, $23.) Moral,
historical and philosophical considerations about genetics pervade
this thematically ambitious novel whose hero is a dwarf and a
distant relative of Gregor Mendel, the monk who founded genetics. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MOORING OF STARTING OUT: The First Five Books of Poetry. By
John Ashbery. (Ecco, $25.) This collection of the poet's work from
1956 to 1972 demonstrates Ashbery's tireless effort to remain
poetically fresh. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NIGHT TRAIN. By Martin Amis. (Harmony, $20.) Amis's ninth novel
is a tightly constructed, darkly romantic police procedural about a
suicide; it defers to genre conventions while probing deeply into
questions of human motivation. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NOBODY'S GIRL. By Antonya Nelson. (Scribner, $22.) A tartly
phrased novel of moral and social isolation whose heroine,
self-exiled in one of New Mexico's empty quarters, has broken off
connections after her mother's death. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NOSFERATU. By Jim Shepard. (Knopf, $22.) This novel, whose hero
sees himself as a vampire lover of sorts, imaginatively
reconstructs the amorous and creative lives of the director F. W.
Murnau. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AN OCTAVE ABOVE THUNDER: New and Selected Poems. By Carol Muske.
(Penguin, paper, $16.95.) Work culled from over two decades of
writing by a poet who invites readers to peer over her shoulder and
see how she's doing. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OYSTER. By Janette Turner Hospital. (Norton, $25.95.) A
half-surreal novel set in a dreamscape Australia, populated by
frontiersmen and cultists whose consciousness, warped by extreme
conditions, ignites a combustive disaster. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PARADISE. By Toni Morrison. (Knopf, $25.) A characteristically
ambitious, troubling, complicated novel set in a small black utopia
whose ineluctable encounter with the ``real'' world has both tragic
and regenerative consequences. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A PATCHWORK PLANET. By Anne Tyler. (Knopf, $24.) Tyler's 14th
novel concerns a 29-year-old underachiever, estranged from his
family and subject to terrible attacks of clarity. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PRESTON FALLS. By David Gates. (Knopf, $25.) A novel whose
hero's only available mode is the relentless irony of denial (he
works in public relations), while his wife's equally monotone
program is the simulation of normality. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   QUARANTINE. By Jim Crace. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $23.)
Expanding on the accounts of the Gospels, this novel by a wizard at
rendering other times and cultures reinterprets Jesus' 40-day fast
in the wilderness at the beginning of His mission. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   RIVEN ROCK. By T. Coraghessan Boyle. (Viking, $24.95.) A rich
madman lives cloistered away from women for 20 years because he
both loves and hates them far too much in this purplish novel
starring some real early-20th-century Americans. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A SCIENTIFIC ROMANCE. By Ronald Wright. (Picador USA, $23.) A
skillful, thoughtful fantasy of the postmillennium whose hero,
traveling in H. G. Wells's very own time machine, discovers a
Thames flowing through ``steaming everglades'' and harboring
crocodiles in A.D. 2500. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SELECTED POEMS. By Harvey Shapiro. (Wesleyan
University/University Press of New England, paper, $12.95.) Fresh,
informal, metrically traditional work that balances life and
experience in two countries, of which one is New York City and the
other is Judaism. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SHROUD OF THE GNOMES: Poems. By James Tate. (Ecco, $23.) Beneath
a nearly impenetrable modern surface, tried-and-true pieties:
peace, happiness, human connection and the pleasures of pure
ordinariness are possible after pain. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SINGING INTO THE PIANO. By Ted Mooney. (Knopf, $25.) Sex is the
ultimate transaction in this novel about American-Mexican
relations. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SKY, THE STARS, THE WILDERNESS. By Rick Bass. (Houghton
Mifflin, $23.) Three novellas of diverse character that offer an
unsentimental but ecstatic portrayal of the physical world. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. By Gore Vidal. (Random House, $23.)
In his 23d novel, Vidal offers a larky and thought-provoking
excursion through American history. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SOLIBO MAGNIFICENT. By Patrick Chamoiseau. (Pantheon, $23.)
Published in French in 1988, this novel concerns a storyteller
whose death from strangulation by words is an emblem of French in
conflict with Creole and of the author's will to pick up where the
Caribbean oral tradition left off. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SPENDING: A Utopian Divertimento. By Mary Gordon. (Scribner,
$24.) A best-of-all-worlds fantasy novel in which a painter, a
middle-aged woman, faces a choice between worldly comfort
(including sex and money) and the artistic struggle, and manages to
have it both ways. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SPRINGS OF AFFECTION: Stories of Dublin. By Maeve Brennan.
(Houghton Mifflin, $24.) A posthumous collection about the strength
and weakness of insularity, the small joys and unrealized dreams of
a single corner of Dublin. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   STARTING OUT IN THE EVENING. By Brian Morton. (Crown, $25.) The
forcefully ordered life of an aging, out-of-print novelist is
suddenly ruptured when he finds himself the subject of a sensitive
young woman's master's thesis. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SUMMER AT GAGLOW. By Esther Freud. (Ecco, $23.95.) A shrewd,
absorbing novel about a family whose notions of ``home'' change as
their relations with the onetime family estate in Germany alter. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TALES FROM OVID. By Ted Hughes. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $25.)
The mellifluities of the Roman poet subjected to the rough
sensibilities of the English poet's often dark and stormy
Yorkshire. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THIS SIDE OF BRIGHTNESS. By Colum McCann. (Metropolitan/Holt,
$23.) A painful, disturbing novel in which three generations of a
troubled family decline from constructing the New York subway
system to inhabiting its dark tunnels. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TWO GUYS FROM VERONA: A Novel of Suburbia. By James Kaplan.
(Atlantic Monthly, $25.) A slightly futuristic account, set in
1999-2000, of the enduring friendship of two men whose lives
diverged after high school; one is a model businessman, the other
the town slacker. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ULTIMATE INTIMACY. By Ivan Klima. (Grove, $25.) The Czech
novelist explores issues of trust, forgiveness and love in this
novel about a pastor who has an extramarital affair. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   VISITORS. By Anita Brookner. (Random House, $23.) In a novel
largely unobscured by the excess baggage of plot, Brookner
illuminates the private dignity of a 70-year-old widow as she
struggles to survive the exquisite alienation of age. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WHITE BOYS: Stories. By Reginald McKnight. (Holt, $23.) A
collection of stories about members of the black middle class that
reflects the complexities of racial interactions. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A WIDOW FOR ONE YEAR. By John Irving. (Random House, $27.95.) A
large, entertaining novel with four main characters, all writers,
and lots of sexual farce and occasional brutality. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A WORKING GIRL CAN'T WIN: And Other Poems. By Deborah Garrison.
(Random House, $15.) Lyrics that form a kind of whole, with stories
at their centers, written around the axes of work and love, small
frustrations and larger losses. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART TWO (1,300 WORDS). PARTS THREE THROUGH SIX _ A
LIST OF NONFICTION RECOMMENDATIONS (AT 1,000 WORDS OR SO EACH) _
FOLLOW. PART SEVEN COMPRISES MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION
TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0146 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:58 ',
			header: '
A4896 &Cx1f; tab-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 1400
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part3of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; larger losses. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; NONFICTION &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ACHIEVING OUR COUNTRY: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century
America. By Richard Rorty. (Harvard University, $18.95.) A witty
and distinguished philosopher appeals to American intellectuals to
return to the political ideals of Emerson, Dewey and other
ancestors. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AGENT OF DESTINY: The Life and Times of General Winfield Scott.
By John S. D. Eisenhower. (Free Press, $27.50.) A historian's
reliable, readable biography of a brilliant soldier whose
reputation has been clouded because he was fat, pompous and 75 when
the Civil War broke out. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ALBERT CAMUS: A Life. By Olivier Todd. (Knopf, $30.) A biography
of the near-proletarian from Algeria who reached the top of the
literary pole in Paris, then fell silent when he could not defend
the fashionable Stalinism of the 1950's. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ALEXANDER SOLZHENITSYN: A Century in His Life. By D. M. Thomas.
(St. Martin's, $29.95.) A distinguished novelist's in-depth
evaluation of an illustrious writer whose deepest beliefs have cut
him off from the liberals who once idolized him. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AMAZING GRACE: A Life of Beauford Delaney. By David Leeming.
(Oxford University, $30.) An impressionistic account, based on
solid research, of the black artist, trickster and saint whose life
ended in a Paris madhouse in 1979. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AMAZING GRACE: A Vocabulary of Faith. By Kathleen Norris.
(Riverhead, $24.95.) An engaging meditation on the language of
faith and on the author's effort to penetrate conventional terms. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ANTON CHEKHOV: A Life. By Donald Rayfield. (Holt, $35.) New
research in Russian archives yields a new Chekhov, in whom the
plaster saint of Soviet biography acquires an active and
interesting sex life and the dismissive callousness a busy artist
often requires. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ARE YOU SOMEBODY: The Accidental Memoir of a Dublin Woman. By
Nuala O'Faolain. (Holt, $21.) These recollections of a journalist
incorporate booze, guilt, repression, poverty and other imperatives
of the Irish narrative while skirting its affectations and
sentimentalities. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ART OF SCANDAL: THE LIFE AND TIMES OF ISABELLA STEWART
GARDNER. By Douglass Shand-Tucci. (HarperCollins, $27.50.) The life
of a mercantile heiress who, with splendid disregard for
19th-century mores, drove too fast, smoked too much and in between
amassed a museumful of the most magnificent art ever collected. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BALLET 101: A Complete Guide to Learning and Loving the Ballet.
By Robert Greskovic. (Hyperion, paper, $16.95.) An intelligent and
enthusiastic handbook for the grown-up who has fallen in love with
the ballet and wants to know more. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE BEAST IN THE NURSERY. By Adam Phillips. (Pantheon, $21.) A
lively treatment of psychoanalysis by a British therapist who
argues that its goal is the exploration and treatment of disordered
-- i.e., suppressed -- curiosity. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BETWEEN DIGNITY AND DESPAIR: Jewish Life in Nazi Germany. By
Marion A. Kaplan. (Oxford University, $30.) An intimate
reconstruction, built from memoirs, letters and interviews, of
endless humiliations, from stupid to atrocious. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE BOYS OF MY YOUTH. By Jo Ann Beard. (Little, Brown, $22.95.)
Personal essays in a charming, comfortable voice, about childhood
and adolescence in a Midwest where only the sharpness of the
author's eye was remarkable. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CAGNEY. By John McCabe. (Knopf, $29.95.) Cagney, the likable pug
on screen, was a retiring man; his private life and sensibilities
are more available in this book by his former ghostwriter than in
anything published before his death. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE CHILDREN. By David Halberstam. (Random House, $29.95.) A
powerful, densely packed rendering of the civil rights movement and
the young black elite who led it, by a reporter who was present
from the beginning in 1950's Nashville.  &LR;  &QL;

   CHOPIN IN PARIS: The Life and Times of the Romantic Composer. By
Tad Szulc. (Scribner, $30.) An appealing, gossipy chronicle,
abounding in detail and based in part on previously untranslated
material, by a former diplomatic correspondent of The New York
Times. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CITIZEN SOLDIERS: The U.S. Army From the Normandy Beaches to the
Bulge to the Surrender of Germany, June 7, 1944-May 7, 1945. By
Stephen E. Ambrose. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $27.50.) Continuing the
account given in ``D-Day'' (1994), the historian resumes his
examination of the ordinary soldier's experience in World War II. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE CLIMB: Tragic Ambitions on Everest. By Anatoli Boukreev and
G. Weston DeWalt. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) A haunting version of the
1996 storm that killed eight climbers, with character revelations
about the Russian mountain nut who remained effective and saved
three lives. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CLONE: THE ROAD TO DOLLY, AND THE PATH AHEAD. By Gina Kolata.
(Morrow, $23.) Dolly the sheep and how she got that way, told by a
reporter for The New York Times who lays out the scientific and
ethical issues that cloning has spawned. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE COMMANDING HEIGHTS: The Battle Between Government and the
Marketplace That Is Remaking the Modern World. By Daniel Yergin and
Joseph Stanislaw. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $26.) An ambitious, colorful,
even suspenseful rendition of a world gaining faith in market
forces while losing its belief in government dirigisme. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CONFEDERATES IN THE ATTIC: Dispatches From the Unfinished Civil
War. By Tony Horwitz. (Pantheon, $27.50.) A Wall Street Journal
reporter and moderate Civil War buff signs up with a troop of
extreme battle re-enactors, encountering many die-hard eccentrics
in a still unreconciled South. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CONSILIENCE: The Unity of Knowledge. By Edward O. Wilson.
(Knopf, $26.) The eminent sociobiologist envisions a grand
reconciliation of science and the humanities. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   COUNTRY, PARK, &AMP; CITY: The Architecture and Life of Calvert
Vaux. By Francis R. Kowsky. (Oxford University, $45.) A handsome
effort to rescue from comparative oblivion the architect who shared
-- sometimes more than equally -- with Frederick Law Olmsted in the
design of Central Park and other New York amenities. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CRABCAKES. By James Alan McPherson. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $23.)
Part lilting memoir, part anxious meditation, this book chronicles
McPherson's quest to experience his life authentically. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DANCING WITH STRANGERS: A Memoir. By Mel Watkins. (Simon &AMP;
Schuster, $24.) Coming-of-age recollections by a former editor at
the Book Review, a black man of independent mind and little
patience with those of any race who too easily arrive at
conclusions. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART THREE (1,000 WORDS). PARTS FOUR THROUGH SIX _
ADDITIONAL NONFICTION LISTINGS _ FOLLOW. PART SEVEN COMPRISES
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New York Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly-regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (Please note that this article has been double-filed _ into the
``a'' general news and ``l'' lifestyle news files.)  
  
 (To publish any part of the list, it must be purchased _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; larger losses. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; NONFICTION &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ACHIEVING OUR COUNTRY: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century
America. By Richard Rorty. (Harvard University, $18.95.) A witty
and distinguished philosopher appeals to American intellectuals to
return to the political ideals of Emerson, Dewey and other
ancestors. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AGENT OF DESTINY: The Life and Times of General Winfield Scott.
By John S. D. Eisenhower. (Free Press, $27.50.) A historian's
reliable, readable biography of a brilliant soldier whose
reputation has been clouded because he was fat, pompous and 75 when
the Civil War broke out. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ALBERT CAMUS: A Life. By Olivier Todd. (Knopf, $30.) A biography
of the near-proletarian from Algeria who reached the top of the
literary pole in Paris, then fell silent when he could not defend
the fashionable Stalinism of the 1950's. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ALEXANDER SOLZHENITSYN: A Century in His Life. By D. M. Thomas.
(St. Martin's, $29.95.) A distinguished novelist's in-depth
evaluation of an illustrious writer whose deepest beliefs have cut
him off from the liberals who once idolized him. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AMAZING GRACE: A Life of Beauford Delaney. By David Leeming.
(Oxford University, $30.) An impressionistic account, based on
solid research, of the black artist, trickster and saint whose life
ended in a Paris madhouse in 1979. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   AMAZING GRACE: A Vocabulary of Faith. By Kathleen Norris.
(Riverhead, $24.95.) An engaging meditation on the language of
faith and on the author's effort to penetrate conventional terms. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ANTON CHEKHOV: A Life. By Donald Rayfield. (Holt, $35.) New
research in Russian archives yields a new Chekhov, in whom the
plaster saint of Soviet biography acquires an active and
interesting sex life and the dismissive callousness a busy artist
often requires. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ARE YOU SOMEBODY: The Accidental Memoir of a Dublin Woman. By
Nuala O'Faolain. (Holt, $21.) These recollections of a journalist
incorporate booze, guilt, repression, poverty and other imperatives
of the Irish narrative while skirting its affectations and
sentimentalities. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ART OF SCANDAL: THE LIFE AND TIMES OF ISABELLA STEWART
GARDNER. By Douglass Shand-Tucci. (HarperCollins, $27.50.) The life
of a mercantile heiress who, with splendid disregard for
19th-century mores, drove too fast, smoked too much and in between
amassed a museumful of the most magnificent art ever collected. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BALLET 101: A Complete Guide to Learning and Loving the Ballet.
By Robert Greskovic. (Hyperion, paper, $16.95.) An intelligent and
enthusiastic handbook for the grown-up who has fallen in love with
the ballet and wants to know more. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE BEAST IN THE NURSERY. By Adam Phillips. (Pantheon, $21.) A
lively treatment of psychoanalysis by a British therapist who
argues that its goal is the exploration and treatment of disordered
-- i.e., suppressed -- curiosity. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BETWEEN DIGNITY AND DESPAIR: Jewish Life in Nazi Germany. By
Marion A. Kaplan. (Oxford University, $30.) An intimate
reconstruction, built from memoirs, letters and interviews, of
endless humiliations, from stupid to atrocious. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE BOYS OF MY YOUTH. By Jo Ann Beard. (Little, Brown, $22.95.)
Personal essays in a charming, comfortable voice, about childhood
and adolescence in a Midwest where only the sharpness of the
author's eye was remarkable. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CAGNEY. By John McCabe. (Knopf, $29.95.) Cagney, the likable pug
on screen, was a retiring man; his private life and sensibilities
are more available in this book by his former ghostwriter than in
anything published before his death. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE CHILDREN. By David Halberstam. (Random House, $29.95.) A
powerful, densely packed rendering of the civil rights movement and
the young black elite who led it, by a reporter who was present
from the beginning in 1950's Nashville.  &LR;  &QL;

   CHOPIN IN PARIS: The Life and Times of the Romantic Composer. By
Tad Szulc. (Scribner, $30.) An appealing, gossipy chronicle,
abounding in detail and based in part on previously untranslated
material, by a former diplomatic correspondent of The New York
Times. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CITIZEN SOLDIERS: The U.S. Army From the Normandy Beaches to the
Bulge to the Surrender of Germany, June 7, 1944-May 7, 1945. By
Stephen E. Ambrose. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $27.50.) Continuing the
account given in ``D-Day'' (1994), the historian resumes his
examination of the ordinary soldier's experience in World War II. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE CLIMB: Tragic Ambitions on Everest. By Anatoli Boukreev and
G. Weston DeWalt. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) A haunting version of the
1996 storm that killed eight climbers, with character revelations
about the Russian mountain nut who remained effective and saved
three lives. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CLONE: THE ROAD TO DOLLY, AND THE PATH AHEAD. By Gina Kolata.
(Morrow, $23.) Dolly the sheep and how she got that way, told by a
reporter for The New York Times who lays out the scientific and
ethical issues that cloning has spawned. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE COMMANDING HEIGHTS: The Battle Between Government and the
Marketplace That Is Remaking the Modern World. By Daniel Yergin and
Joseph Stanislaw. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $26.) An ambitious, colorful,
even suspenseful rendition of a world gaining faith in market
forces while losing its belief in government dirigisme. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CONFEDERATES IN THE ATTIC: Dispatches From the Unfinished Civil
War. By Tony Horwitz. (Pantheon, $27.50.) A Wall Street Journal
reporter and moderate Civil War buff signs up with a troop of
extreme battle re-enactors, encountering many die-hard eccentrics
in a still unreconciled South. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CONSILIENCE: The Unity of Knowledge. By Edward O. Wilson.
(Knopf, $26.) The eminent sociobiologist envisions a grand
reconciliation of science and the humanities. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   COUNTRY, PARK, &AMP; CITY: The Architecture and Life of Calvert
Vaux. By Francis R. Kowsky. (Oxford University, $45.) A handsome
effort to rescue from comparative oblivion the architect who shared
-- sometimes more than equally -- with Frederick Law Olmsted in the
design of Central Park and other New York amenities. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CRABCAKES. By James Alan McPherson. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $23.)
Part lilting memoir, part anxious meditation, this book chronicles
McPherson's quest to experience his life authentically. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DANCING WITH STRANGERS: A Memoir. By Mel Watkins. (Simon &AMP;
Schuster, $24.) Coming-of-age recollections by a former editor at
the Book Review, a black man of independent mind and little
patience with those of any race who too easily arrive at
conclusions. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART THREE (1,000 WORDS). PARTS FOUR THROUGH SIX _
ADDITIONAL NONFICTION LISTINGS _ FOLLOW. PART SEVEN COMPRISES
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0147 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 15:59 ',
			header: '
A4899 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SUN-FINANCIAL-EARLY-B     06-11 0767
',
			slug: ' BC-SUN-FINANCIAL-EARLY-BUDGET ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &QL;

   The New York Times News Service will send the following business
articles for release Sunday, June 14, 1998: &QL; 
 &QL;

   If you have questions about stories, call (212) 556-1927.

   ART ADV: Graphics and photos are being sent, as indicated below,
to NYT Graphics and Photos subscribers. Clients needing
retransmission or information, or non-subscribers seeking to
arrange individual purchase, should call (212) 556-4204. &QL; 
 &QL;

   Eds: This week's financial offerings are focusing on investing
in Europe. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &UR; Special features: &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &LR;

   CLUBCORP-DISPUTE (Undated) _ The disputes embroiling Clubcorp,
the nation's leading owner and operator of country clubs. By Diana
B. Henriques.  &QL; 
Graphic. &QL;

   INVEST-EUROPE-OVERVIEW (Frankfurt, Germany) _ Europe's economies
come alive as monetary union nears; awakening investors flood
bourses with a wall of money; companies cotton to American-style
ideas of shareholder value: a thrilling dawn breaks. By Edmund L.
Andrews. Graphic. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &UR; Invest  &LR;

   INVEST-EUROPE-HOW (Undated) _ ADRs? EDRs? Euro-index funds?
Investors need to rethink how they go about investing in Europe. By
Jonathan Fuerbringer. Graphic.

   INVEST-EUROPE-BONDS (Undated) _ Bond investing strategies in the
new Europe. By Jonathan Fuerbringer.

   INVEST-EUROPE-STOCKS (Undated) _ Are there enough European
stocks to go around? By John Tagliabue.

   INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE (Undated) _ Big, important parts of
Western Europe are left outside the euro-zone. If an American wants
to be in these markets, what is the smartest way in? By Youssef M.
Ibrahim. Graphic.

   INVEST-EUROPE-HOT (Undated) _ The hottest markets in Europe are
beyond most investors' gazes: in Spain, Portugal, Ireland and
Greece. Have stocks in these markets seen their best gains already?
By Edmund L. Andrews.

   INVEST-EUROPE-INDIRECT (Undated) _ What does the move away from
country-oriented investing auger for closed-end country funds? By
Noelle Knox. Graphic.

   INVEST-EUROPE-MULTI (Undated) _ Investing in Europe the indirect
way, by investing in American multinationals with lots of business
in Europe. By John Tagliabue.

   INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS (Undated) _ A Prudential Securities study
finds that buying `broken momentum' stocks _ previously high flyers
that fall hard on one bad earnings surprise _ isn't such a smart
strategy after all, or, when is a buying opportunity not a buying
opportunity? By Micky Meece. Graphic. &QL;

   &UR; Mutfund  &LR;

   MUTFUND-HANSPETER (Undated) _ Q&AMP;A with Hanspeter Ackermann of
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell. By Sharon R. King.

   MUTFUND-DREMAN (Undated) _ David Dreman, contrarian master,
tells what he likes now, from aboard his yacht Contrarian. By
Noelle Knox. Graphic.

   &UR; Earn  &LR;

   EARN-MACARTHUR-PROFILES (Undated) _ Profiles of three MacArthur
Foundation winners, named earlier this month, whose work has some
interesting, if tangential, impact on the economy and workplace.

   &UR; Spend  &LR;

   SPEND-SHARES-YACHTS (Undated) _ A Vicarious Consumption on Irwin
Jacobs' newest venture: time-shares on luxury yachts. How luxe?
Each of three shares in a 74-footer costs $1 million, plus an
annual fee of $259,000. Hey, a crew comes with that. By Peter
Passell.

   SPEND-COMIC-RELIEF (Undated) _ Q&AMP;A with Whoopi Goldberg on Comic
Relief, the homeless and whether she thought she would be doing
this 8 years later. By Laurie Mifflin.

   SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS (Undated) _ The monthly column on the latest
business books with advice for investors. By Deborah Stead.
Graphic.

   &UR; Auto Stories &QL; 
 &LR;

   ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE (Portland, Ore.) _ This year, as Porsche
marks the 50th anniversary of its first car, it has reinvented
itself by remaking its 34-year-old flagship. It has set about
remaking the 911 completely for the first time since the car bowed
in 1965. By Keith Martin. Graphic.

   CAR-SMART-SUVs (Undated) _ Porsche and Volkswagen are teaming up
to build high-end sports utility vehicles for sale in the United
States and Europe. By Michelle Krebs.

   &UR; Regular financial features  &LR;

   FUNDS-WATCH (Undated) _ A weekly report on changes in mutual
funds _ comings and goings among managers, changes in fees and
openings and closings. By Carole Gould.

   MARKET-WATCH (New York) _ A look at developments in the markets
worldwide. By Gretchen Morgenson. Graphic.

   BIZ-WEEK (Undated) _ Review of last week's top business news.
Graphic.

   CALENDAR (Undated) _ A listing of key business events upcoming
during the next week.

   &UR; The New York Times News Service  &LR;
',
			body: '

 - NYT  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &QL;

   The New York Times News Service will send the following business
articles for release Sunday, June 14, 1998: &QL; 
 &QL;

   If you have questions about stories, call (212) 556-1927.

   ART ADV: Graphics and photos are being sent, as indicated below,
to NYT Graphics and Photos subscribers. Clients needing
retransmission or information, or non-subscribers seeking to
arrange individual purchase, should call (212) 556-4204. &QL; 
 &QL;

   Eds: This week's financial offerings are focusing on investing
in Europe. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &UR; Special features: &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &LR;

   CLUBCORP-DISPUTE (Undated) _ The disputes embroiling Clubcorp,
the nation's leading owner and operator of country clubs. By Diana
B. Henriques.  &QL; 
Graphic. &QL;

   INVEST-EUROPE-OVERVIEW (Frankfurt, Germany) _ Europe's economies
come alive as monetary union nears; awakening investors flood
bourses with a wall of money; companies cotton to American-style
ideas of shareholder value: a thrilling dawn breaks. By Edmund L.
Andrews. Graphic. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &UR; Invest  &LR;

   INVEST-EUROPE-HOW (Undated) _ ADRs? EDRs? Euro-index funds?
Investors need to rethink how they go about investing in Europe. By
Jonathan Fuerbringer. Graphic.

   INVEST-EUROPE-BONDS (Undated) _ Bond investing strategies in the
new Europe. By Jonathan Fuerbringer.

   INVEST-EUROPE-STOCKS (Undated) _ Are there enough European
stocks to go around? By John Tagliabue.

   INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE (Undated) _ Big, important parts of
Western Europe are left outside the euro-zone. If an American wants
to be in these markets, what is the smartest way in? By Youssef M.
Ibrahim. Graphic.

   INVEST-EUROPE-HOT (Undated) _ The hottest markets in Europe are
beyond most investors' gazes: in Spain, Portugal, Ireland and
Greece. Have stocks in these markets seen their best gains already?
By Edmund L. Andrews.

   INVEST-EUROPE-INDIRECT (Undated) _ What does the move away from
country-oriented investing auger for closed-end country funds? By
Noelle Knox. Graphic.

   INVEST-EUROPE-MULTI (Undated) _ Investing in Europe the indirect
way, by investing in American multinationals with lots of business
in Europe. By John Tagliabue.

   INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS (Undated) _ A Prudential Securities study
finds that buying `broken momentum' stocks _ previously high flyers
that fall hard on one bad earnings surprise _ isn't such a smart
strategy after all, or, when is a buying opportunity not a buying
opportunity? By Micky Meece. Graphic. &QL;

   &UR; Mutfund  &LR;

   MUTFUND-HANSPETER (Undated) _ Q&AMP;A with Hanspeter Ackermann of
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell. By Sharon R. King.

   MUTFUND-DREMAN (Undated) _ David Dreman, contrarian master,
tells what he likes now, from aboard his yacht Contrarian. By
Noelle Knox. Graphic.

   &UR; Earn  &LR;

   EARN-MACARTHUR-PROFILES (Undated) _ Profiles of three MacArthur
Foundation winners, named earlier this month, whose work has some
interesting, if tangential, impact on the economy and workplace.

   &UR; Spend  &LR;

   SPEND-SHARES-YACHTS (Undated) _ A Vicarious Consumption on Irwin
Jacobs' newest venture: time-shares on luxury yachts. How luxe?
Each of three shares in a 74-footer costs $1 million, plus an
annual fee of $259,000. Hey, a crew comes with that. By Peter
Passell.

   SPEND-COMIC-RELIEF (Undated) _ Q&AMP;A with Whoopi Goldberg on Comic
Relief, the homeless and whether she thought she would be doing
this 8 years later. By Laurie Mifflin.

   SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS (Undated) _ The monthly column on the latest
business books with advice for investors. By Deborah Stead.
Graphic.

   &UR; Auto Stories &QL; 
 &LR;

   ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE (Portland, Ore.) _ This year, as Porsche
marks the 50th anniversary of its first car, it has reinvented
itself by remaking its 34-year-old flagship. It has set about
remaking the 911 completely for the first time since the car bowed
in 1965. By Keith Martin. Graphic.

   CAR-SMART-SUVs (Undated) _ Porsche and Volkswagen are teaming up
to build high-end sports utility vehicles for sale in the United
States and Europe. By Michelle Krebs.

   &UR; Regular financial features  &LR;

   FUNDS-WATCH (Undated) _ A weekly report on changes in mutual
funds _ comings and goings among managers, changes in fees and
openings and closings. By Carole Gould.

   MARKET-WATCH (New York) _ A look at developments in the markets
worldwide. By Gretchen Morgenson. Graphic.

   BIZ-WEEK (Undated) _ Review of last week's top business news.
Graphic.

   CALENDAR (Undated) _ A listing of key business events upcoming
during the next week.

   &UR; The New York Times News Service  &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0148 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:00 ',
			header: '
A4902 &Cx1f; tab-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 1288
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part4of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; arrive at conclusions. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (NONFICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DEAR GENIUS: The Letters of Ursula Nordstrom. Edited by Leonard
S. Marcus. (HarperCollins, $22.95.) The correspondence of the
children's books editor whose authors included Maurice Sendak and
E. B. White. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DIPLOMACY FOR THE NEXT CENTURY. By Abba Eban. (Yale University,
$24.) A concise, elegant introduction to realism in foreign
affairs, by a man who learned lots of realism as Israel's principal
diplomatic voice for some 25 years. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DR. SPOCK: An American Life. By Thomas Maier. (Harcourt Brace,
$30.) A biography, written with the cooperation of its subject, of
the man who created modern child rearing. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE DREAM PALACE OF THE ARABS: A Generation's Odyssey. By Fouad
Ajami. (Pantheon, $26.) A vivid account of how, in the author's
view, Arab writers and intellectuals have neither accommodated to
international reality nor joined to create the Arab world they
badly need. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ELGIN AFFAIR: The Abduction of Antiquity's Greatest
Treasures and the Passions It Aroused. By Theodore Vrettos.
(Arcade, $26.95.) An account of the acquisition by Lord Elgin of
the sculptures from the Parthenon. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ERRATA: An Examined Life. By George Steiner. (Yale University,
$25.) Reminiscences from the literary critic best described as a
polyglot polymath. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   EVERYBODY WAS SO YOUNG. Gerald and Sara Murphy: A Lost
Generation Love Story. By Amanda Vaill. (Houghton Mifflin, $30.) A
skillful and comprehensive study of the rich, beautiful American
couple who knew everyone there was to know in Paris and Antibes in
the 1920's. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE FACTORY OF FACTS. By Luc Sante. (Pantheon, $24.) A sly,
elegant, engaging sort-of autobiography, an investigation of
selfhood as created in history, by a writer from Belgium and New
Jersey. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FLAWED GIANT: Lyndon Johnson and His Times, 1961-1973. By Robert
Dallek. (Oxford University, $35.) Unlike some other recent
renditions, this second half of a biography by a professional
historian shows a President often enough disproportionate but never
monstrous. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE. By Geraldine Brooks. (Anchor/Doubleday,
$22.95.) A journalist's generous, intelligent memoir of growing up
in an isolated Australia through pen pals, then going to find them
in the great world. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GENUINE REALITY: A Life of William James. By Linda Simon.
(Harcourt Brace, $35.) A biography that links James's philosophical
positions to his real-life experiences, some of which (debilitating
depression, for instance) are portrayed as lifelong issues, never
overcome by mind-cures. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GEORGE BUSH: The Life of a Lone Star Yankee. By Herbert S.
Parmet. (Lisa Drew/ Scribner, $32.50.) The first full-scale
biography raises the question (which remains unresolved) of whether
its subject ever followed his convictions rather than his
interests. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE GHOSTS OF MEDGAR EVERS: A Tale of Race, Murder, Mississippi
and Hollywood. By Willie Morris. (Random House, $23.) An account of
how the trial of Medgar Evers's assassin became a film. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE GREATEST BENEFIT TO MANKIND: A Medical History of Humanity.
By Roy Porter. (Norton, $35.) A prodigious history of medicine from
antiquity through issues like H.M.O.'s, tobacco companies and Dr.
Jack Kevorkian. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HACIENDA: A Memoir. By Lisa St. Aubin de Teran. (Little,
Brown, $23.95.) A nonfiction narration of the nightmare marriage to
a weird Venezuelan landowner that underlay the author's novel
``Keepers of the House'' (1982). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HEADING SOUTH, LOOKING NORTH: A Bilingual Journey. By Ariel
Dorfman. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $24.) A fascinating memoir of
the search for a home and an identity by a writer several times
exiled (from this country, among others), first for his parents'
beliefs, then his own. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A HISTORY OF EUROPE. By J. M. Roberts. (Allen Lane/Penguin,
$34.95.) A compact but comprehensive chronicle of the rise and fall
of the continent. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HISTORY OF JAZZ. By Ted Gioia. (Oxford University, $30.) An
all-encompassing short history of the genre that has dominated
20th-century music. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HONOR'S VOICE: The Transformation of Abraham Lincoln. By Douglas
L. Wilson. (Knopf, $30.) A solid new Lincoln portrait by a scholar
who starts not with Lincoln's greatness but with his actual
beginnings as a young man searching for identity and
self-definition. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   IN THE COUNTRY OF ILLNESS: Comfort and Advice for the Journey.
By Robert Lipsyte. (Knopf, $24.) Mortality confronted less with
advice than with hard-earned outrage, first at the author's cancer,
then his ex-wife's; by a columnist for the sports and City sections
of The Times. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   JANE AUSTEN: A Life. By Claire Tomalin. (Knopf, $27.50.) Another
one! Distinctive in its hypothesis that the incidents of Austen's
life were far less trivial than they may look to us now. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   JOHANNES BRAHMS: A Biography. By Jan Swafford. (Knopf, $35.) An
enormously informed life of the first truly bourgeois composer and
(probably) the first composer to feel oppressed and hobbled by the
greatness of his predecessors. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KENNETH TYNAN LETTERS. Edited by Kathleen Tynan. (Random House,
$30.) The correspondence of the brilliant English theater critic. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KILLING THE DREAM: James Earl Ray and the Assassination of
Martin Luther King, Jr. By Gerald Posner. (Random House, $25.) The
researcher who zapped Kennedy conspiracy theories in ``Case
Closed'' does likewise to Ray's claim of innocence in King's
death. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KURDISTAN: In the Shadow of History. By Susan Meiselas. (Random
House, $100.) The family album of a people without a country, held
in contempt by their masters and betrayed by distant friends;
rendered in photographs, memoirs and intelligence files by a
photojournalist who visited Iraq with a Human Rights Watch team. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART FOUR (1,000 WORDS). PARTS FIVE AND SIX _
ADDITIONAL NONFICTION RECOMMENDATIONS _ FOLLOW, AS WELL AS PART
SEVEN: MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New York Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (Please note that this article has been double-filed _ into the
``a'' general news and ``l'' lifestyle news files.)  
  
 (To publish any part of the list, it must be purchased _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; arrive at conclusions. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (NONFICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DEAR GENIUS: The Letters of Ursula Nordstrom. Edited by Leonard
S. Marcus. (HarperCollins, $22.95.) The correspondence of the
children's books editor whose authors included Maurice Sendak and
E. B. White. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DIPLOMACY FOR THE NEXT CENTURY. By Abba Eban. (Yale University,
$24.) A concise, elegant introduction to realism in foreign
affairs, by a man who learned lots of realism as Israel's principal
diplomatic voice for some 25 years. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   DR. SPOCK: An American Life. By Thomas Maier. (Harcourt Brace,
$30.) A biography, written with the cooperation of its subject, of
the man who created modern child rearing. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE DREAM PALACE OF THE ARABS: A Generation's Odyssey. By Fouad
Ajami. (Pantheon, $26.) A vivid account of how, in the author's
view, Arab writers and intellectuals have neither accommodated to
international reality nor joined to create the Arab world they
badly need. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE ELGIN AFFAIR: The Abduction of Antiquity's Greatest
Treasures and the Passions It Aroused. By Theodore Vrettos.
(Arcade, $26.95.) An account of the acquisition by Lord Elgin of
the sculptures from the Parthenon. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ERRATA: An Examined Life. By George Steiner. (Yale University,
$25.) Reminiscences from the literary critic best described as a
polyglot polymath. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   EVERYBODY WAS SO YOUNG. Gerald and Sara Murphy: A Lost
Generation Love Story. By Amanda Vaill. (Houghton Mifflin, $30.) A
skillful and comprehensive study of the rich, beautiful American
couple who knew everyone there was to know in Paris and Antibes in
the 1920's. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE FACTORY OF FACTS. By Luc Sante. (Pantheon, $24.) A sly,
elegant, engaging sort-of autobiography, an investigation of
selfhood as created in history, by a writer from Belgium and New
Jersey. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FLAWED GIANT: Lyndon Johnson and His Times, 1961-1973. By Robert
Dallek. (Oxford University, $35.) Unlike some other recent
renditions, this second half of a biography by a professional
historian shows a President often enough disproportionate but never
monstrous. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE. By Geraldine Brooks. (Anchor/Doubleday,
$22.95.) A journalist's generous, intelligent memoir of growing up
in an isolated Australia through pen pals, then going to find them
in the great world. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GENUINE REALITY: A Life of William James. By Linda Simon.
(Harcourt Brace, $35.) A biography that links James's philosophical
positions to his real-life experiences, some of which (debilitating
depression, for instance) are portrayed as lifelong issues, never
overcome by mind-cures. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   GEORGE BUSH: The Life of a Lone Star Yankee. By Herbert S.
Parmet. (Lisa Drew/ Scribner, $32.50.) The first full-scale
biography raises the question (which remains unresolved) of whether
its subject ever followed his convictions rather than his
interests. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE GHOSTS OF MEDGAR EVERS: A Tale of Race, Murder, Mississippi
and Hollywood. By Willie Morris. (Random House, $23.) An account of
how the trial of Medgar Evers's assassin became a film. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE GREATEST BENEFIT TO MANKIND: A Medical History of Humanity.
By Roy Porter. (Norton, $35.) A prodigious history of medicine from
antiquity through issues like H.M.O.'s, tobacco companies and Dr.
Jack Kevorkian. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HACIENDA: A Memoir. By Lisa St. Aubin de Teran. (Little,
Brown, $23.95.) A nonfiction narration of the nightmare marriage to
a weird Venezuelan landowner that underlay the author's novel
``Keepers of the House'' (1982). &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HEADING SOUTH, LOOKING NORTH: A Bilingual Journey. By Ariel
Dorfman. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $24.) A fascinating memoir of
the search for a home and an identity by a writer several times
exiled (from this country, among others), first for his parents'
beliefs, then his own. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A HISTORY OF EUROPE. By J. M. Roberts. (Allen Lane/Penguin,
$34.95.) A compact but comprehensive chronicle of the rise and fall
of the continent. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE HISTORY OF JAZZ. By Ted Gioia. (Oxford University, $30.) An
all-encompassing short history of the genre that has dominated
20th-century music. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HONOR'S VOICE: The Transformation of Abraham Lincoln. By Douglas
L. Wilson. (Knopf, $30.) A solid new Lincoln portrait by a scholar
who starts not with Lincoln's greatness but with his actual
beginnings as a young man searching for identity and
self-definition. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   IN THE COUNTRY OF ILLNESS: Comfort and Advice for the Journey.
By Robert Lipsyte. (Knopf, $24.) Mortality confronted less with
advice than with hard-earned outrage, first at the author's cancer,
then his ex-wife's; by a columnist for the sports and City sections
of The Times. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   JANE AUSTEN: A Life. By Claire Tomalin. (Knopf, $27.50.) Another
one! Distinctive in its hypothesis that the incidents of Austen's
life were far less trivial than they may look to us now. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   JOHANNES BRAHMS: A Biography. By Jan Swafford. (Knopf, $35.) An
enormously informed life of the first truly bourgeois composer and
(probably) the first composer to feel oppressed and hobbled by the
greatness of his predecessors. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KENNETH TYNAN LETTERS. Edited by Kathleen Tynan. (Random House,
$30.) The correspondence of the brilliant English theater critic. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KILLING THE DREAM: James Earl Ray and the Assassination of
Martin Luther King, Jr. By Gerald Posner. (Random House, $25.) The
researcher who zapped Kennedy conspiracy theories in ``Case
Closed'' does likewise to Ray's claim of innocence in King's
death. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   KURDISTAN: In the Shadow of History. By Susan Meiselas. (Random
House, $100.) The family album of a people without a country, held
in contempt by their masters and betrayed by distant friends;
rendered in photographs, memoirs and intelligence files by a
photojournalist who visited Iraq with a Human Rights Watch team. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART FOUR (1,000 WORDS). PARTS FIVE AND SIX _
ADDITIONAL NONFICTION RECOMMENDATIONS _ FOLLOW, AS WELL AS PART
SEVEN: MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0149 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:01 ',
			header: '
A4904 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-1S     06-11 0759
',
			slug: ' BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-1STLD-WRITETHRU-HNS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   The Hearst News Service has filed or will file these stories for
Friday and Sunday. If you have questions, please call Susie McBee
or Tim Spence at 202-298-6920. For questions about Houston
Chronicle sports stories, please call the Houston Chronicle Sports
Department, 713-220-7896.

   &LR;  &QL;

   (EDs: Adds TOBACCO-SENATE; RACIAL-ATTACK; BKN-NBAFINALS;
SOC-WORLD-CUP; HKN-STANLEY; and BBN-ASTROS.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   (The ``HNS'' tag appears in all sluglines.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   For Friday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CLINTON-CHINA (Washington) _ President Clinton combats mounting
criticism of his mission to China, casting it as a ``principled and
pragmatic'' effort to protect U.S. interests. In a speech, he again
defends his planned participation in an official welcoming ceremony
in Tiananmen Square, where hundreds of pro-democracy demonstrators
were massacred in 1989. By STEWART M. POWELL.

   PELOSI-CHINA (Washington) _ Rep. Nancy Pelosi sharpens her
attacks on President Clinton's China policy, saying the president
is ``either in denial or ill-informed about what's going on in
China.'' By JUDY HOLLAND. (Already filed)

   RENO-JASPER (Washington) _ Attorney General Janet Reno says the
Justice Department will investigate the case of three white men
accused of beating and then dragging a black man to his death in
Jasper, Texas. The department is considering filing federal charges
that the suspects violated the man's civil rights. By MARK HELM.

   OFFSHORE-OIL (Washington) _ President Clinton is expected to
extend a moratorium on offshore oil development along the
California coast beyond the expiration of the existing moratorium
in 2000. Clinton will announce his decision Friday in California.
By STEWART M. POWELL. (Already filed)

   TOBACCO-BACKFIRE (Washington) _ When Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas,
first offered a marriage tax-cut amendment to the tobacco bill that
he strongly opposes, it appeared he had come up with a tactic that
would kill it. Instead, the move gave it new life, in what Sen.
Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., calls the law of ``unintended
consequences.'' By JUDY HOLLAND.

   TOBACCO-SENATE (Washington) _ The Senate continues its
consideration of tobacco legislation that would add $1.10 to the
cost of a pack of cigarettes. One area expected to be debated is
limits on attorney fees in tobacco lawsuits. By BENNETT ROTH.

   NATIONAL NEWS (``a'' category)

   RACIAL-ATTACK (Jasper, Texas) _ Vice President Al Gore will
visit the east Texas town where three white men are accused of
beating and dragging a black man to his death. The authorities in
Jasper have formed a task force, to be headed by the FBI, to
investigate the slaying of James Byrd Jr. By RICHARD STEWART and
T.J. MILLING.

   COMMENTARY (``k'' category)

   MEANS-COLUMN (Washington) _ If you still think the death penalty
is never morally justified, pay attention to the shocking murder in
Texas, in which three white men stand accused of dragging a black
man behind a truck to his death. This is the kind of horror that
cries out for the ultimate punishment. By MARIANNE MEANS.

   SPORTS (``s'' category)

   BKN-NBAFINALS (Chicago) _ It could be the final game of Michael
Jordan's NBA career. And could there be a more perfect ending to
the Chicago Bulls' run that to wrap up their sixth NBA Championship
on their home court? By EDDIE SEFKO.

   SOC-WORLD-CUP (Bordeaux, France) _ In World Cup action, the
opening-round match between Italy and Chile ends 2-2. By JOHN P.
LOPEZ

   HKN-STANLEY (Detroit) _ The Detroit Red Wings hope to take a 2-0
lead over the Washington Capitals in Game 2 of the Stanley Cup
Finals. By NEIL HOHLFELD.

   BBN-ASTROS (Cincinnati) _ Riding a five-game winning streak and
holding a two-game lead in the NL Central race, the Houston Astros
are in the middle of a soft stretch of the schedule where their
next four opponents are all sub .500 teams. By JOSEPH DUARTE.

   For Sunday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CONSERVATIVE-DEMOCRATS (Washington) _ At least nine
congressional candidates are pro-gun and anti-abortion _ and
they're Democrats. The party has recruited them to run in mostly
rural districts where Democrats otherwise might not have a prayer.
Liberals say they betray the party's core values. But defenders say
recruiting them is the only way Democrats can take back the House.
By DAN FREEDMAN.
',
			body: '

  
 Thursday, June 11, 1998     
 Editors     

',
			paragraphs: '
   The Hearst News Service has filed or will file these stories for
Friday and Sunday. If you have questions, please call Susie McBee
or Tim Spence at 202-298-6920. For questions about Houston
Chronicle sports stories, please call the Houston Chronicle Sports
Department, 713-220-7896.

   &LR;  &QL;

   (EDs: Adds TOBACCO-SENATE; RACIAL-ATTACK; BKN-NBAFINALS;
SOC-WORLD-CUP; HKN-STANLEY; and BBN-ASTROS.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   (The ``HNS'' tag appears in all sluglines.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   For Friday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CLINTON-CHINA (Washington) _ President Clinton combats mounting
criticism of his mission to China, casting it as a ``principled and
pragmatic'' effort to protect U.S. interests. In a speech, he again
defends his planned participation in an official welcoming ceremony
in Tiananmen Square, where hundreds of pro-democracy demonstrators
were massacred in 1989. By STEWART M. POWELL.

   PELOSI-CHINA (Washington) _ Rep. Nancy Pelosi sharpens her
attacks on President Clinton's China policy, saying the president
is ``either in denial or ill-informed about what's going on in
China.'' By JUDY HOLLAND. (Already filed)

   RENO-JASPER (Washington) _ Attorney General Janet Reno says the
Justice Department will investigate the case of three white men
accused of beating and then dragging a black man to his death in
Jasper, Texas. The department is considering filing federal charges
that the suspects violated the man's civil rights. By MARK HELM.

   OFFSHORE-OIL (Washington) _ President Clinton is expected to
extend a moratorium on offshore oil development along the
California coast beyond the expiration of the existing moratorium
in 2000. Clinton will announce his decision Friday in California.
By STEWART M. POWELL. (Already filed)

   TOBACCO-BACKFIRE (Washington) _ When Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas,
first offered a marriage tax-cut amendment to the tobacco bill that
he strongly opposes, it appeared he had come up with a tactic that
would kill it. Instead, the move gave it new life, in what Sen.
Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., calls the law of ``unintended
consequences.'' By JUDY HOLLAND.

   TOBACCO-SENATE (Washington) _ The Senate continues its
consideration of tobacco legislation that would add $1.10 to the
cost of a pack of cigarettes. One area expected to be debated is
limits on attorney fees in tobacco lawsuits. By BENNETT ROTH.

   NATIONAL NEWS (``a'' category)

   RACIAL-ATTACK (Jasper, Texas) _ Vice President Al Gore will
visit the east Texas town where three white men are accused of
beating and dragging a black man to his death. The authorities in
Jasper have formed a task force, to be headed by the FBI, to
investigate the slaying of James Byrd Jr. By RICHARD STEWART and
T.J. MILLING.

   COMMENTARY (``k'' category)

   MEANS-COLUMN (Washington) _ If you still think the death penalty
is never morally justified, pay attention to the shocking murder in
Texas, in which three white men stand accused of dragging a black
man behind a truck to his death. This is the kind of horror that
cries out for the ultimate punishment. By MARIANNE MEANS.

   SPORTS (``s'' category)

   BKN-NBAFINALS (Chicago) _ It could be the final game of Michael
Jordan's NBA career. And could there be a more perfect ending to
the Chicago Bulls' run that to wrap up their sixth NBA Championship
on their home court? By EDDIE SEFKO.

   SOC-WORLD-CUP (Bordeaux, France) _ In World Cup action, the
opening-round match between Italy and Chile ends 2-2. By JOHN P.
LOPEZ

   HKN-STANLEY (Detroit) _ The Detroit Red Wings hope to take a 2-0
lead over the Washington Capitals in Game 2 of the Stanley Cup
Finals. By NEIL HOHLFELD.

   BBN-ASTROS (Cincinnati) _ Riding a five-game winning streak and
holding a two-game lead in the NL Central race, the Houston Astros
are in the middle of a soft stretch of the schedule where their
next four opponents are all sub .500 teams. By JOSEPH DUARTE.

   For Sunday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CONSERVATIVE-DEMOCRATS (Washington) _ At least nine
congressional candidates are pro-gun and anti-abortion _ and
they're Democrats. The party has recruited them to run in mostly
rural districts where Democrats otherwise might not have a prayer.
Liberals say they betray the party's core values. But defenders say
recruiting them is the only way Democrats can take back the House.
By DAN FREEDMAN.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0150 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:02 ',
			header: '
A4905 &Cx1f; tab-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 1425
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part5of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; Human Watch Rights team. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (NONFICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE LAST PATRICIAN: Bobby Kennedy and the End of American
Aristocracy. By Michael Knox Beran. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) A
lively, audacious argument that Robert F. Kennedy in his last years
had become what we would now call conservative. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LAUGHING MATTERS: On Writing ``M*A*S*H,'' ``Tootsie,'' ``Oh,
God!'' and a Few Other Funny Things. By Larry Gelbart. (Random
House, $24.) The comic master of television, Broadway and the
movies gives a characteristically eccentric -- and funny -- account
of his career. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LETTERS OF HEINRICH AND THOMAS MANN, 1900-1949. Edited by Hans
Wysling. (University of California, $50.) Correspondence between
two brothers, both novelists, one major, one minor. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A LEXICON OF TERROR: Argentina and the Legacies of Torture. By
Marguerite Feitlowitz. (Oxford University, $30.) A well-researched,
intimate, perceptive portrait of an Argentina still struggling with
the crime of the ``dirty war'' that ended nearly 20 years ago. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LIFE: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life
on Earth. By Richard Fortey. (Knopf, $30.) A popular, scholarly,
entertaining survey that brings the reader up to date on several
paleontological controversies. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LONG LIFE. By Nigel Nicolson. (Putnam, $29.95.) A casual,
confiding memoir by an 80-year-old man who is always excellent
company and has known the world and everyone in it in his career as
soldier, politician, publisher, squire and offspring of Harold
Nicolson and Vita Sackville-West. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   MADE POSSIBLE BY . . . : The Death of Public Broadcasting in the
United States. By James Ledbetter. (Verso, $25.) A vigorous if
ideologically biased argument that public television serves a
valuable function in our cultural life and should be protected from
political pressure. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MAN WHO ATE EVERYTHING: And Other Gastronomic Feats,
Disputes, and Pleasurable Pursuits. By Jeffrey Steingarten. (Knopf,
$27.50.) Round-the-world adventures from the outside in by Vogue's
food critic, who insists, in the face of all purse-mouthed dissent,
that food is good for us. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A MARITIME ALBUM: 100 Photographs and Their Stories. By John
Szarkowski and Richard Benson. (Mariners' Museum/Yale University,
$39.95.) Not a book of maritime history but a book of splendid
photographs that fire memory and imagination about the relationship
of humanity to its centuries of traffic with the sea. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   MARTIN HEIDEGGER: Between Good and Evil. By Rudiger Safranski.
(Harvard University, $35.) An evenhanded biography of a paradox: a
great and influential philosopher who was also a Nazi. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MEADOWLANDS: Wilderness Adventures at the Edge of a City. By
Robert Sullivan. (Scribner, $23.) Cool, alert ecological excursions
into the abused yet still beautiful and interesting terrain of the
New Jersey Meadowlands. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MEANING OF IT ALL: Thoughts of a Citizen Scientist. By
Richard P. Feynman. (Helix/Addison-Wesley, $22.) From the great
physicist's archives, three delightful lectures on science, society
and our precious freedom of ignorance. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   M. F. K. FISHER: A Life in Letters. Correspondence 1929-1991.
Selected and compiled by Norah K. Barr, Marsha Moran and Patrick
Moran. (Counterpoint, $35.) Fisher's quirky, finely controlled
voice is as much in evidence in her correspondence as in her wildly
admired writing on matters gastronomic. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A MOTHER'S PLACE: Taking the Debate About Working Mothers Beyond
Guilt and Blame. By Susan Chira. (HarperCollins, $25.) From
personal experience, interviews and research, the author, an editor
at The New York Times, makes the case that good motherhood doesn't
require martyrdom. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NOTORIOUS VICTORIA: The Life of Victoria Woodhull, Uncensored.
By Mary Gabriel. (Algonquin, $24.95.) A biography, by a reporter
for Reuters, of the eccentric 19th-century social reformer. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ONE NATION, AFTER ALL. What Middle-Class Americans Really Think
About: God, Country, Family, Racism, Welfare, Immigration,
Homosexuality, Work, the Right, the Left, and Each Other. By Alan
Wolfe. (Viking, $24.95.) A sociologist finds that Americans have
more respect for diversity than they often get credit for. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ONE ROUND RIVER: The Curse of Gold and the Fight for the Big
Blackfoot. By Richard Manning. (Holt, $25.) A furious but
persuasively argued polemic against a vast gold-mining project in
Montana, and also against whoever wants gold. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OSCAR WILDE'S LAST STAND: Decadence, Conspiracy, and the Most
Outrageous Trial of the Century. By Philip Hoare. (Arcade, $25.95.)
How a ``Salome'' production in 1918 London provoked a circus of
ruling-class paranoia, ignorance and fear. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OTHER POWERS: The Age of Suffrage, Spiritualism, and the
Scandalous Victoria Woodhull. By Barbara Goldsmith. (Knopf, $30.) A
historian's account of the fabulous Presidential candidate,
clairvoyant, stockbroker, publisher, free lover and jailbird. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE OTHER SIDE OF THE RIVER: A Story of Two Towns, a Death, and
America's Dilemma. By Alex Kotlowitz. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday,
$24.95.) A Wall Street Journal reporter's historically placed
investigation of a black teen-ager's death in Michigan scours up a
cloud of facts and concludes in painful ambiguity. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OUTSIDE PASSAGE: A Memoir of an Alaskan Childhood. By Julia
Scully. (Random House, $23.) Life with a mother present and absent,
in San Francisco, an orphanage, Alaska, recalled in a quiet
rhetoric with a forgiving moral imagination. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PAINTING BY NUMBERS: Komar and Melamid's Scientific Guide to
Art. Edited by JoAnn Wypijewski. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $50.)
The results, after digestion by the archconceptualists Vitaly Komar
and Alexander Melamid, of opinion polling about what people like.
No sane reader can fail to be embarrassed! &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PARADISE LOST: California's Experience, America's Future. By
Peter Schrag. (New Press, $25.) An angry, persuasive assault, by an
experienced journalist, on rule by voter initiative and the
shrinking financial straitjacket in which California now
struggles. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PILLAR OF FIRE: America in the King Years, 1963-65. By Taylor
Branch. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $30.) The second volume of a projected
trilogy that began with ``Parting the Waters'' continues the story
of Martin Luther King Jr., a man who, the author concludes, was
truly an epic hero. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PLANET OF THE BLIND. By Stephen Kuusisto. (Dial, $22.95.) A
gripping and literary narrative of unusual metaphorical extension
and authority, in which the author is able to include the reader in
his coming to terms with blindness. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART FIVE (1,000 WORDS). FINAL LIST OF NONFICTION
RECOMMENDATIONS _ PART SIX (1,300 WORDS) _ FOLLOWS, AS WELL AS PART
SEVEN: MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New York Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (Please note that this article has been double-filed _ into the
``a'' general news and ``l'' lifestyle news files.)  
  
 (To publish any part of the list, it must be purchased _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; Human Watch Rights team. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (NONFICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE LAST PATRICIAN: Bobby Kennedy and the End of American
Aristocracy. By Michael Knox Beran. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) A
lively, audacious argument that Robert F. Kennedy in his last years
had become what we would now call conservative. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LAUGHING MATTERS: On Writing ``M*A*S*H,'' ``Tootsie,'' ``Oh,
God!'' and a Few Other Funny Things. By Larry Gelbart. (Random
House, $24.) The comic master of television, Broadway and the
movies gives a characteristically eccentric -- and funny -- account
of his career. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LETTERS OF HEINRICH AND THOMAS MANN, 1900-1949. Edited by Hans
Wysling. (University of California, $50.) Correspondence between
two brothers, both novelists, one major, one minor. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A LEXICON OF TERROR: Argentina and the Legacies of Torture. By
Marguerite Feitlowitz. (Oxford University, $30.) A well-researched,
intimate, perceptive portrait of an Argentina still struggling with
the crime of the ``dirty war'' that ended nearly 20 years ago. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LIFE: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life
on Earth. By Richard Fortey. (Knopf, $30.) A popular, scholarly,
entertaining survey that brings the reader up to date on several
paleontological controversies. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   LONG LIFE. By Nigel Nicolson. (Putnam, $29.95.) A casual,
confiding memoir by an 80-year-old man who is always excellent
company and has known the world and everyone in it in his career as
soldier, politician, publisher, squire and offspring of Harold
Nicolson and Vita Sackville-West. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   MADE POSSIBLE BY . . . : The Death of Public Broadcasting in the
United States. By James Ledbetter. (Verso, $25.) A vigorous if
ideologically biased argument that public television serves a
valuable function in our cultural life and should be protected from
political pressure. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MAN WHO ATE EVERYTHING: And Other Gastronomic Feats,
Disputes, and Pleasurable Pursuits. By Jeffrey Steingarten. (Knopf,
$27.50.) Round-the-world adventures from the outside in by Vogue's
food critic, who insists, in the face of all purse-mouthed dissent,
that food is good for us. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A MARITIME ALBUM: 100 Photographs and Their Stories. By John
Szarkowski and Richard Benson. (Mariners' Museum/Yale University,
$39.95.) Not a book of maritime history but a book of splendid
photographs that fire memory and imagination about the relationship
of humanity to its centuries of traffic with the sea. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   MARTIN HEIDEGGER: Between Good and Evil. By Rudiger Safranski.
(Harvard University, $35.) An evenhanded biography of a paradox: a
great and influential philosopher who was also a Nazi. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MEADOWLANDS: Wilderness Adventures at the Edge of a City. By
Robert Sullivan. (Scribner, $23.) Cool, alert ecological excursions
into the abused yet still beautiful and interesting terrain of the
New Jersey Meadowlands. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MEANING OF IT ALL: Thoughts of a Citizen Scientist. By
Richard P. Feynman. (Helix/Addison-Wesley, $22.) From the great
physicist's archives, three delightful lectures on science, society
and our precious freedom of ignorance. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   M. F. K. FISHER: A Life in Letters. Correspondence 1929-1991.
Selected and compiled by Norah K. Barr, Marsha Moran and Patrick
Moran. (Counterpoint, $35.) Fisher's quirky, finely controlled
voice is as much in evidence in her correspondence as in her wildly
admired writing on matters gastronomic. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A MOTHER'S PLACE: Taking the Debate About Working Mothers Beyond
Guilt and Blame. By Susan Chira. (HarperCollins, $25.) From
personal experience, interviews and research, the author, an editor
at The New York Times, makes the case that good motherhood doesn't
require martyrdom. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NOTORIOUS VICTORIA: The Life of Victoria Woodhull, Uncensored.
By Mary Gabriel. (Algonquin, $24.95.) A biography, by a reporter
for Reuters, of the eccentric 19th-century social reformer. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ONE NATION, AFTER ALL. What Middle-Class Americans Really Think
About: God, Country, Family, Racism, Welfare, Immigration,
Homosexuality, Work, the Right, the Left, and Each Other. By Alan
Wolfe. (Viking, $24.95.) A sociologist finds that Americans have
more respect for diversity than they often get credit for. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ONE ROUND RIVER: The Curse of Gold and the Fight for the Big
Blackfoot. By Richard Manning. (Holt, $25.) A furious but
persuasively argued polemic against a vast gold-mining project in
Montana, and also against whoever wants gold. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OSCAR WILDE'S LAST STAND: Decadence, Conspiracy, and the Most
Outrageous Trial of the Century. By Philip Hoare. (Arcade, $25.95.)
How a ``Salome'' production in 1918 London provoked a circus of
ruling-class paranoia, ignorance and fear. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OTHER POWERS: The Age of Suffrage, Spiritualism, and the
Scandalous Victoria Woodhull. By Barbara Goldsmith. (Knopf, $30.) A
historian's account of the fabulous Presidential candidate,
clairvoyant, stockbroker, publisher, free lover and jailbird. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE OTHER SIDE OF THE RIVER: A Story of Two Towns, a Death, and
America's Dilemma. By Alex Kotlowitz. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday,
$24.95.) A Wall Street Journal reporter's historically placed
investigation of a black teen-ager's death in Michigan scours up a
cloud of facts and concludes in painful ambiguity. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   OUTSIDE PASSAGE: A Memoir of an Alaskan Childhood. By Julia
Scully. (Random House, $23.) Life with a mother present and absent,
in San Francisco, an orphanage, Alaska, recalled in a quiet
rhetoric with a forgiving moral imagination. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PAINTING BY NUMBERS: Komar and Melamid's Scientific Guide to
Art. Edited by JoAnn Wypijewski. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $50.)
The results, after digestion by the archconceptualists Vitaly Komar
and Alexander Melamid, of opinion polling about what people like.
No sane reader can fail to be embarrassed! &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PARADISE LOST: California's Experience, America's Future. By
Peter Schrag. (New Press, $25.) An angry, persuasive assault, by an
experienced journalist, on rule by voter initiative and the
shrinking financial straitjacket in which California now
struggles. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PILLAR OF FIRE: America in the King Years, 1963-65. By Taylor
Branch. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $30.) The second volume of a projected
trilogy that began with ``Parting the Waters'' continues the story
of Martin Luther King Jr., a man who, the author concludes, was
truly an epic hero. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PLANET OF THE BLIND. By Stephen Kuusisto. (Dial, $22.95.) A
gripping and literary narrative of unusual metaphorical extension
and authority, in which the author is able to include the reader in
his coming to terms with blindness. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART FIVE (1,000 WORDS). FINAL LIST OF NONFICTION
RECOMMENDATIONS _ PART SIX (1,300 WORDS) _ FOLLOWS, AS WELL AS PART
SEVEN: MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0151 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:04 ',
			header: '
A4907 &Cx1f; tab-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 1755
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part6of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; terms with blindess. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (NONFICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PLEASURE WARS. The Bourgeois Experience: Victoria to Freud.
Volume 5. By Peter Gay. (Norton, $29.95.) The final volume
(concerning art and the avant-garde) of an immense, imaginative,
tireless study of the much-abused class that invented everything
liberal intellectuals cherish about modern civilization. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A PRAYER FOR THE CITY. By Buzz Bissinger. (Random House,
$25.95.) A remarkable mayor's successful struggle to keep
Philadelphia alive, and his prayerful effort to reshape the city
for viability in the uncertain future, observed by a shrewd
reporter with extraordinary access. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE QUAKERS: Money and Morals. By James Walvin. (John
Murray/Trafalgar Square, $45.) An examination, centered on the
commercial world of Victorian Britain, of the tiny denomination
that rose to immense wealth and respectability once its members
abandoned the noisy prophetic radicalism of their 17th-century
founders. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE RAPE OF NANKING: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II. By
Iris Chang. (Basic Books, $25.) A harrowing account of the
monstrous massacre perpetrated by Japanese troops in 1937, an event
now rarely mentioned, for different reasons, in China and Japan
alike. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   RED-TAILS IN LOVE: A Wildlife Drama in Central Park. By Marie
Winn. (Pantheon, $24.) An affectionate account of a hawk's eventual
success at raising a family in Manhattan and of the bird-watchers
who rapturously observe his struggles. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   REMAKING EDEN: Cloning and Beyond in a Brave New World. By Lee
M. Silver. (Avon, $25.) Realistic, informed speculation by a
geneticist and teacher of bioethics who finds the American polity
so constructed that government can do little to control whatever
potential parents desire and can afford; he's not at all sure
that's bad, either. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SCORPION TONGUES: Gossip, Celebrity, and American Politics. By
Gail Collins. (Morrow, $25.) A breezy, timely history of political
gossip, with an epilogue about the matter of Monica Lewinsky, by an
editorial writer for The New York Times. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SLAVES IN THE FAMILY. By Edward Ball. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux,
$30.) Through travel, interviews and documents, Ball, whose
forebears owned thousands of slaves, grapples with his own sense of
accountability for slavery and its consequences in this extended
family chronicle. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SONG FOR THE BLUE OCEAN: Encounters Along the World's Coasts and
Beneath the Seas. By Carl Safina. (John Macrae/Holt, $30.) An
engrossing, illuminating, depressing journey, with a research
ecologist, to the dwindling populations of wild edible creatures in
the sea. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SPANISH INQUISITION: A Historical Revision. By Henry Kamen.
(Yale University, $35.) The author finds that the Inquisition
little resembled the omnipotent, torture-crazed blight imagined by
19th-century mythology. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TAKING WING: Archaeopteryx and the Evolution of Bird Flight. By
Pat Shipman. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $25.) The bird-and-dinosaur issue,
lucidly handled by a writer who is able to understand and convey
how paleontologists think. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A TANGLED WEB: The Making of Foreign Policy in the Nixon
Presidency. By William Bundy. (Hill &AMP; Wang, $35.) A fair-minded and
dispassionate assessment that gives Nixon higher marks for
shrewdness and manipulation than for statesmanship. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TECUMSEH: A Life. By John Sugden. (John Macrae/Holt, $34.95.) A
detailed, scrupulous account of the great leader who envisioned a
pan-Indian alliance against the whites but came, inevitably, to
grief in the War of 1812. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TENDER AT THE BONE: Growing Up at the Table. By Ruth Reichl.
(Random House, $23.) The riotously amusing memoir, frankly somewhat
embroidered, of a woman for whom a life of eating, waitressing and
cooking prepared her for her current job as restaurant critic of
this newspaper. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE TIME OF OUR TIME. By Norman Mailer. (Random House, $39.50.)
A large anthology of his own work in the 50th year of ``The Naked
and the Dead'' and the 75th of himself; a veritable social history
of postwar America as Mailer (so often correctly) saw it and
sometimes made it. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TITAN: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr. By Ron Chernow.
(Random House, $30.) A large-scale, sustained narrative portrait of
the founding father, free of visible ideological predispositions. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TRICKY DICK AND THE PINK LADY: Richard Nixon vs. Helen Gahagan
Douglas -- Sexual Politics and the Red Scare, 1950. By Greg
Mitchell. (Random House, $25.) An account of the Senate race that
previewed the redbaiting that would mark the 1950's. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TROUBLE IN MIND: Black Southerners in the Age of Jim Crow. By
Leon F. Litwack. (Knopf, $35.) A heartbreaking portrayal of
segregation, disfranchisement and sheer meanness between
Reconstruction and World War I. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TRUMAN CAPOTE. By George Plimpton. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday,
$35.) An oral biography of the man whose literary gifts were
rivaled only by his talent for self-promotion, this account takes
Capote from his Southern boyhood to the New York literary whirl,
and serves up dish that often reveals as much about the speaker as
the subject. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TURNAROUND: How America's Top Cop Reversed the Crime Epidemic.
By William Bratton with Peter Knobler. (Random House, $25.) Mayor
Rudolph Giuliani's first Police Commissioner, apparently dismissed
for shining too brightly in the news, gives his version of things. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TWILIGHT ON THE LINE: Underworlds and Politics at the
U.S.-Mexican Border. By Sebastian Rotella. (Norton, $25.) A vivid
study of immigration, crime and graft at a border pressurized by
Federal agents' successful interdiction of the drug highway through
Florida. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TWINS: And What They Tell Us About Who We Are. By Lawrence
Wright. (Wiley, $22.95.) A lucid if not totally convincing
introduction to behavioral genetics, based chiefly on studies of
identical twins raised separately. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   UNAFRAID OF THE DARK: A Memoir. By Rosemary L. Bray. (Random
House, $24.) The life so far of a black woman who grew up on
welfare (a system whose detractors she upbraids), went to Yale and
became a successful journalist at this book review and many other
places. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   UNAUTHORIZED PORTRAITS. By Edward Sorel. (Knopf, $40.) A
personal anthology by a cartoonist who is a foremost practitioner
of what he calls ``comic portraits that are deliberately
hurtful.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   VICTOR HUGO. By Graham Robb. (Norton, $39.95.) A readable, fully
documented, mercifully short (considering) biography of France's
huge romantic poet, novelist and personal mythmaker. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   VIOLET: The Life and Loves of Violet Gordon Woodhouse. By
Jessica Douglas-Home. (Harvill/ Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $28.) With
one lawful husband and three faithful surrogates, this remarkable
Englishwoman lived one of the oddest happy lives of the Edwardian
and Georgian eras. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE WARRIOR'S HONOR: Ethnic War and the Modern Conscience. By
Michael Ignatieff. (Metropolitan/Holt, $24.95.) In five uneasy
essays, a commentator and moralist examines the near-impotence of
the immensely powerful West to amend pointless savagery in less
favored states. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WE'LL CALL YOU IF WE NEED YOU: Experiences of Women Working
Construction. By Susan Eisenberg. (ILR Press/Cornell University,
$25.) The author, a master electrician and poet, thoughtfully
introduces and celebrates the people and the measures that led to
the modest success women have achieved in the building trades. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WICKERBY: An Urban Pastoral. By Charles Siebert. (Crown, $21.)
The poles of this memoir are Siebert's native Brooklyn and the
landscape of southern Quebec, and its enterprise is the reunion
through reflection of the city with nature. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WILD THOUGHTS FROM WILD PLACES. By David Quammen. (Scribner,
$24.) A collection of magazine articles that allows the reader to
share Quammen's love of nature. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE WORLD ACCORDING TO PETER DRUCKER. By Jack Beatty. (Free
Press, $25.) Taking Drucker seriously as an intellectual, Beatty
finds him ambivalent about capitalism, disappointed in management's
social irresponsibility, and engaged with the thought of
Kierkegaard. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE WORLD WITHIN WAR: America's Combat Experience in World War
II. By Gerald F. Linderman. (Free Press, $26.) The experience and
the remarkable effectiveness of ordinary Americans called to arms,
reflectively told and based on memoirs and war fiction. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ``YOU AIN'T HEARD NOTHIN' YET.'' The American Talking Film:
History &AMP; Memory, 1927-1949. By Andrew Sarris. (Oxford University,
$35.) Notes and essays covering films examined by as significant
and missionary a critic as we've got. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART SIX (1,300 WORDS). FINAL LIST, PART SEVEN _
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES _ FOLLOWS.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New York Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (Please note that this article has been double-filed _ in the ``a''
general news and ``l'' lifestyle news files.)  
  
 (To publish any part of the list, it must be purchased _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; terms with blindess. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (NONFICTION _ CONTINUED) &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PLEASURE WARS. The Bourgeois Experience: Victoria to Freud.
Volume 5. By Peter Gay. (Norton, $29.95.) The final volume
(concerning art and the avant-garde) of an immense, imaginative,
tireless study of the much-abused class that invented everything
liberal intellectuals cherish about modern civilization. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A PRAYER FOR THE CITY. By Buzz Bissinger. (Random House,
$25.95.) A remarkable mayor's successful struggle to keep
Philadelphia alive, and his prayerful effort to reshape the city
for viability in the uncertain future, observed by a shrewd
reporter with extraordinary access. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE QUAKERS: Money and Morals. By James Walvin. (John
Murray/Trafalgar Square, $45.) An examination, centered on the
commercial world of Victorian Britain, of the tiny denomination
that rose to immense wealth and respectability once its members
abandoned the noisy prophetic radicalism of their 17th-century
founders. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE RAPE OF NANKING: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II. By
Iris Chang. (Basic Books, $25.) A harrowing account of the
monstrous massacre perpetrated by Japanese troops in 1937, an event
now rarely mentioned, for different reasons, in China and Japan
alike. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   RED-TAILS IN LOVE: A Wildlife Drama in Central Park. By Marie
Winn. (Pantheon, $24.) An affectionate account of a hawk's eventual
success at raising a family in Manhattan and of the bird-watchers
who rapturously observe his struggles. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   REMAKING EDEN: Cloning and Beyond in a Brave New World. By Lee
M. Silver. (Avon, $25.) Realistic, informed speculation by a
geneticist and teacher of bioethics who finds the American polity
so constructed that government can do little to control whatever
potential parents desire and can afford; he's not at all sure
that's bad, either. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SCORPION TONGUES: Gossip, Celebrity, and American Politics. By
Gail Collins. (Morrow, $25.) A breezy, timely history of political
gossip, with an epilogue about the matter of Monica Lewinsky, by an
editorial writer for The New York Times. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SLAVES IN THE FAMILY. By Edward Ball. (Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux,
$30.) Through travel, interviews and documents, Ball, whose
forebears owned thousands of slaves, grapples with his own sense of
accountability for slavery and its consequences in this extended
family chronicle. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   SONG FOR THE BLUE OCEAN: Encounters Along the World's Coasts and
Beneath the Seas. By Carl Safina. (John Macrae/Holt, $30.) An
engrossing, illuminating, depressing journey, with a research
ecologist, to the dwindling populations of wild edible creatures in
the sea. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE SPANISH INQUISITION: A Historical Revision. By Henry Kamen.
(Yale University, $35.) The author finds that the Inquisition
little resembled the omnipotent, torture-crazed blight imagined by
19th-century mythology. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TAKING WING: Archaeopteryx and the Evolution of Bird Flight. By
Pat Shipman. (Simon &AMP; Schuster, $25.) The bird-and-dinosaur issue,
lucidly handled by a writer who is able to understand and convey
how paleontologists think. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   A TANGLED WEB: The Making of Foreign Policy in the Nixon
Presidency. By William Bundy. (Hill &AMP; Wang, $35.) A fair-minded and
dispassionate assessment that gives Nixon higher marks for
shrewdness and manipulation than for statesmanship. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TECUMSEH: A Life. By John Sugden. (John Macrae/Holt, $34.95.) A
detailed, scrupulous account of the great leader who envisioned a
pan-Indian alliance against the whites but came, inevitably, to
grief in the War of 1812. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TENDER AT THE BONE: Growing Up at the Table. By Ruth Reichl.
(Random House, $23.) The riotously amusing memoir, frankly somewhat
embroidered, of a woman for whom a life of eating, waitressing and
cooking prepared her for her current job as restaurant critic of
this newspaper. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE TIME OF OUR TIME. By Norman Mailer. (Random House, $39.50.)
A large anthology of his own work in the 50th year of ``The Naked
and the Dead'' and the 75th of himself; a veritable social history
of postwar America as Mailer (so often correctly) saw it and
sometimes made it. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TITAN: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr. By Ron Chernow.
(Random House, $30.) A large-scale, sustained narrative portrait of
the founding father, free of visible ideological predispositions. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TRICKY DICK AND THE PINK LADY: Richard Nixon vs. Helen Gahagan
Douglas -- Sexual Politics and the Red Scare, 1950. By Greg
Mitchell. (Random House, $25.) An account of the Senate race that
previewed the redbaiting that would mark the 1950's. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TROUBLE IN MIND: Black Southerners in the Age of Jim Crow. By
Leon F. Litwack. (Knopf, $35.) A heartbreaking portrayal of
segregation, disfranchisement and sheer meanness between
Reconstruction and World War I. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TRUMAN CAPOTE. By George Plimpton. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday,
$35.) An oral biography of the man whose literary gifts were
rivaled only by his talent for self-promotion, this account takes
Capote from his Southern boyhood to the New York literary whirl,
and serves up dish that often reveals as much about the speaker as
the subject. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TURNAROUND: How America's Top Cop Reversed the Crime Epidemic.
By William Bratton with Peter Knobler. (Random House, $25.) Mayor
Rudolph Giuliani's first Police Commissioner, apparently dismissed
for shining too brightly in the news, gives his version of things. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TWILIGHT ON THE LINE: Underworlds and Politics at the
U.S.-Mexican Border. By Sebastian Rotella. (Norton, $25.) A vivid
study of immigration, crime and graft at a border pressurized by
Federal agents' successful interdiction of the drug highway through
Florida. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TWINS: And What They Tell Us About Who We Are. By Lawrence
Wright. (Wiley, $22.95.) A lucid if not totally convincing
introduction to behavioral genetics, based chiefly on studies of
identical twins raised separately. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   UNAFRAID OF THE DARK: A Memoir. By Rosemary L. Bray. (Random
House, $24.) The life so far of a black woman who grew up on
welfare (a system whose detractors she upbraids), went to Yale and
became a successful journalist at this book review and many other
places. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   UNAUTHORIZED PORTRAITS. By Edward Sorel. (Knopf, $40.) A
personal anthology by a cartoonist who is a foremost practitioner
of what he calls ``comic portraits that are deliberately
hurtful.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   VICTOR HUGO. By Graham Robb. (Norton, $39.95.) A readable, fully
documented, mercifully short (considering) biography of France's
huge romantic poet, novelist and personal mythmaker. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   VIOLET: The Life and Loves of Violet Gordon Woodhouse. By
Jessica Douglas-Home. (Harvill/ Farrar, Straus &AMP; Giroux, $28.) With
one lawful husband and three faithful surrogates, this remarkable
Englishwoman lived one of the oddest happy lives of the Edwardian
and Georgian eras. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE WARRIOR'S HONOR: Ethnic War and the Modern Conscience. By
Michael Ignatieff. (Metropolitan/Holt, $24.95.) In five uneasy
essays, a commentator and moralist examines the near-impotence of
the immensely powerful West to amend pointless savagery in less
favored states. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WE'LL CALL YOU IF WE NEED YOU: Experiences of Women Working
Construction. By Susan Eisenberg. (ILR Press/Cornell University,
$25.) The author, a master electrician and poet, thoughtfully
introduces and celebrates the people and the measures that led to
the modest success women have achieved in the building trades. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WICKERBY: An Urban Pastoral. By Charles Siebert. (Crown, $21.)
The poles of this memoir are Siebert's native Brooklyn and the
landscape of southern Quebec, and its enterprise is the reunion
through reflection of the city with nature. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WILD THOUGHTS FROM WILD PLACES. By David Quammen. (Scribner,
$24.) A collection of magazine articles that allows the reader to
share Quammen's love of nature. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE WORLD ACCORDING TO PETER DRUCKER. By Jack Beatty. (Free
Press, $25.) Taking Drucker seriously as an intellectual, Beatty
finds him ambivalent about capitalism, disappointed in management's
social irresponsibility, and engaged with the thought of
Kierkegaard. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE WORLD WITHIN WAR: America's Combat Experience in World War
II. By Gerald F. Linderman. (Free Press, $26.) The experience and
the remarkable effectiveness of ordinary Americans called to arms,
reflectively told and based on memoirs and war fiction. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ``YOU AIN'T HEARD NOTHIN' YET.'' The American Talking Film:
History &AMP; Memory, 1927-1949. By Andrew Sarris. (Oxford University,
$35.) Notes and essays covering films examined by as significant
and missionary a critic as we've got. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; (END OF PART SIX (1,300 WORDS). FINAL LIST, PART SEVEN _
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION TITLES _ FOLLOWS.) &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0152 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:05 ',
			header: '
A4910 &Cx1f; tab-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-VACATION-READING-Part     06-11 0848
',
			slug: ' BC-VACATION-READING-Part7of7-NYTSF ',
			headline: '
A BOOK LOVER'S GUIDE FOR THOSE LAZY, HAZY DAYS OF SUMMER  
 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; as we've got. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; MYSTERIES &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE BALLAD OF FRANKIE SILVER. By Sharyn McCrumb. (Dutton,
$23.95.) A case of 19th-century frontier justice and the modern-day
execution of a killer are interwoven in this Appalachian mountain
tale of love, loyalty and murder. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BLIND DESCENT. By Nevada Barr. (Putnam, $22.95.) On a
hair-raising mission into a ``monster man-eating cave'' in Carlsbad
Caverns, a National Park Service ranger discovers that a member of
her rescue team is a killer. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HIT MAN. By Lawrence Block. (Morrow, $22.) A killer named Keller
reacts to a midcareer crisis by becoming involved in the lives of
his intended targets, in a series of murderous adventures that are
both funny and full of rue. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MOOR. By Laurie R. King. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) The cheeky
premise of this artful historical mystery -- that Sherlock Holmes
has taken a young, brainy wife -- sends the sleuthing pair to
Dartmoor to investigate sightings of a huge, ghostly beast. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NIGHT DOGS. By Kent Anderson. (Bantam, $22.95.) A street cop in
Portland, Ore., works himself into a hellish state of mind as he
pounds his wretched beat in 1975, reliving his own nightmares as a
Green Beret in Vietnam. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ``N'' IS FOR NOOSE. By Sue Grafton. (Holt, $25.) The cocky
shamus Kinsey Millhone is ignored, insulted and otherwise put in
her place by the surly residents of a rural California town, all of
them determined to keep their skeletons in the closet. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WINGS OF FIRE. By Ian Rutledge. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) The wild
scenery and dark legends of the Cornish countryside provide the
moody atmosphere for a Scotland Yard detective's investigation into
the suicide of a beloved poet. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; SCIENCE FICTION &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CIRCUIT OF HEAVEN. By Dennis Danvers. (Eos/Avon, $14.) ``Romeo
and Juliet in Cyberspace'' might be the subtitle of this moving
love story, in which technological barriers threaten to separate an
appealing pair of ``star-cross'd lovers'' as painfully as the more
traditional barriers of class and clan. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FLESH AND GOLD. By Phyllis Gotlieb. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $23.95.)
Set mostly in a far-future brothel that caters to the desires of
``15 kinds of humanity,'' this labyrinthine novel by a
distinguished Canadian poet takes an almost perverse pleasure in
affirming the universality of human lust and greed. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PACIFIC EMPIRE. By G. Miki Hayden. (JoNa Books, Box 336,
Bedford, Ind. 47421, paper, $12.95.) A ``what if'' novel in which
the Japanese defeat the United States in World War II. By focusing
on individuals instead of geopolitics, Hayden immerses the reader
in a world that feels no less real for being counterfactual. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PHOENIX CAFE. By Gwyneth Jones. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $24.95.)
Suffering is the bond that brings humans and aliens together in
this deeply affecting novel, which concludes a trilogy that began
with ``White Queen.'' Instead of neatly wrapping up all loose ends,
Jones invites the reader to accept the mystery at the core of all
intimate relationships. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TO SAY NOTHING OF THE DOG. By Connie Willis. (Spectra/Bantam,
$23.95.) This delightful addition to Willis's series of time-travel
tales (which includes the poignant ``Fire Watch'' and the tragic
``Doomsday Book'') is a cheery romp through Victorian England on
the trail of a monstrosity called the ``bishop's bird stump.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company. &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDITORS: New York Times Book Review's Summer Reading
Recommendations)   (This ``separate-buy'' seven-part compilation of recommended
lawn-chair reading is from the highly regarded New York Times Book
Review section.)  
  
 (ATTN. EDITORS: FOR YOUR EASE, THIS EXTENSIVE ``BOOK LOOK'' HAS
BEEN MOVED TO YOU IN SEVEN EASY-TO-EDIT PARTS: PARTS 1 AND 2,
FICTION &AMP; POETRY; PARTS 3 THROUGH 6, NONFICTION; AND PART 7,
MYSTERIES AND SCIENCE FICTION. ALL CAN BE FOUND UNDER THE SLUG
BC-VACATION-READING-PART()of7-NYTSF.)  
  
 (Please note that this article has been double-filed _ into the
``a'' general news and ``l'' lifestyle news files.)  
  
 (To publish any part of the list, it must be purchased _ the rate
is not prohibitive _ from New York Times Syndicate sales
representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or
816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms. White can also be
reached by e-mail at cwhite nytimes.com.)  
  
 c.1998 The New York Times Company  
 (Distributed by New York Times Special Features)  
  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; as we've got. &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; MYSTERIES &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE BALLAD OF FRANKIE SILVER. By Sharyn McCrumb. (Dutton,
$23.95.) A case of 19th-century frontier justice and the modern-day
execution of a killer are interwoven in this Appalachian mountain
tale of love, loyalty and murder. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   BLIND DESCENT. By Nevada Barr. (Putnam, $22.95.) On a
hair-raising mission into a ``monster man-eating cave'' in Carlsbad
Caverns, a National Park Service ranger discovers that a member of
her rescue team is a killer. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   HIT MAN. By Lawrence Block. (Morrow, $22.) A killer named Keller
reacts to a midcareer crisis by becoming involved in the lives of
his intended targets, in a series of murderous adventures that are
both funny and full of rue. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   THE MOOR. By Laurie R. King. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) The cheeky
premise of this artful historical mystery -- that Sherlock Holmes
has taken a young, brainy wife -- sends the sleuthing pair to
Dartmoor to investigate sightings of a huge, ghostly beast. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   NIGHT DOGS. By Kent Anderson. (Bantam, $22.95.) A street cop in
Portland, Ore., works himself into a hellish state of mind as he
pounds his wretched beat in 1975, reliving his own nightmares as a
Green Beret in Vietnam. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   ``N'' IS FOR NOOSE. By Sue Grafton. (Holt, $25.) The cocky
shamus Kinsey Millhone is ignored, insulted and otherwise put in
her place by the surly residents of a rural California town, all of
them determined to keep their skeletons in the closet. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   WINGS OF FIRE. By Ian Rutledge. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) The wild
scenery and dark legends of the Cornish countryside provide the
moody atmosphere for a Scotland Yard detective's investigation into
the suicide of a beloved poet. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; SCIENCE FICTION &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   CIRCUIT OF HEAVEN. By Dennis Danvers. (Eos/Avon, $14.) ``Romeo
and Juliet in Cyberspace'' might be the subtitle of this moving
love story, in which technological barriers threaten to separate an
appealing pair of ``star-cross'd lovers'' as painfully as the more
traditional barriers of class and clan. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   FLESH AND GOLD. By Phyllis Gotlieb. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $23.95.)
Set mostly in a far-future brothel that caters to the desires of
``15 kinds of humanity,'' this labyrinthine novel by a
distinguished Canadian poet takes an almost perverse pleasure in
affirming the universality of human lust and greed. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PACIFIC EMPIRE. By G. Miki Hayden. (JoNa Books, Box 336,
Bedford, Ind. 47421, paper, $12.95.) A ``what if'' novel in which
the Japanese defeat the United States in World War II. By focusing
on individuals instead of geopolitics, Hayden immerses the reader
in a world that feels no less real for being counterfactual. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   PHOENIX CAFE. By Gwyneth Jones. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $24.95.)
Suffering is the bond that brings humans and aliens together in
this deeply affecting novel, which concludes a trilogy that began
with ``White Queen.'' Instead of neatly wrapping up all loose ends,
Jones invites the reader to accept the mystery at the core of all
intimate relationships. &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   TO SAY NOTHING OF THE DOG. By Connie Willis. (Spectra/Bantam,
$23.95.) This delightful addition to Willis's series of time-travel
tales (which includes the poignant ``Fire Watch'' and the tragic
``Doomsday Book'') is a cheery romp through Victorian England on
the trail of a monstrosity called the ``bishop's bird stump.'' &QL; 
 &LR;  &QL;

   &UR; Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company. &LR;  &QC; 
 &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; ___________________ &LR;  &QC; 
 &UR; (To publish any or all of this seven-part list of recommended
summer reading from The New York Times Book Review section, it must
be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from New York Times
Syndicate sales representative CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at
1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448, or fax her at 816-822-1444. Ms.
White can be reached by e-mail: cwhite &LR; nytimes.com.) &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0153 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:12 ',
			header: '
A4912 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ENTERTAINMENT-BUDGET-     06-11 0606
',
			slug: ' BC-ENTERTAINMENT-BUDGET-LADN ',
			headline: '
.
',
			trailer: '
',
			body: '


  
(For use by NYTimes News Service clients) The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following stories
today for use by NYTimes News Service clients. They will move in
the ``e'' entertainment news file. For questions, contact Jimmy
Johnson at the Daily News, (818) 713-3695. 
. 
LOVE-MOVIE (Los Angeles) _ Jennifer Love Hewitt says it was a great
chance to act out a fantasy, playing a high school popularity queen
in the new teen party comedy ``Can't Hardly Wait.'' By Bob
Strauss. 
. 
LOVE-NAME (Los Angeles) _ Is it Jennifer Love or Love Hewitt? The
question tries men's souls. Everyone who likes her refers to
actress Jennifer Love Hewitt simply as Love. But whether they're
being overly familiar or oddly formal has been a mystery. By Bob
Strauss. 
. 
POITIER-FILMS (Los Angeles) _ The Academy of Motion Picture Arts
and Sciences is devoting two nights to salute Sidney Poitier, whose
work has opened the door for some of today's top-notch actors:
Morgan Freeman, Laurence Fishburne and Denzel Washington, to name a
few. By Bob McCarthy. 
. 
WAIT-REVIEW (Los Angeles) _ Add old cliches, a dash of new
stereotypes, add alcohol and crank up the music. That's the recipe
for ``Can't Hardly Wait,'' a teen party picture that throws a
decent enough bash in spite of its superficiality. 3 Stars. By Bob
Strauss. 
. 
COUSIN-REVIEW (Los Angeles) _ Jessica Lange and Elisabeth Shue star
in ``Cousin Bette,'' this melancholy adaptation of the Balzac
novel. Fox Searchlight opens in limited release Friday. 3 Stars. By
Glenn Whipp. 
. 
LAND-REVIEW (Los Angeles) _ Supposedly a paean to the plucky
English lasses who tilled the fields and milked the cows while the
men were off fighting Hitler, ``Land Girls'' comes as close to
trivializing an honorable endeavor as any movie of recent vintage
has. 2 Stars. By Bob Strauss. 
. 
HIGH-REVIEW (Los Angeles) _ In ``High Art'' Ally Sheedy stars as a
burned-out bohemian photographer set amid the dissipated, dropout
world of disillusioned artists. October Films opens in limited run
Friday. 3 Stars. By Bob Strauss. 
. 
PASSION-REVIEW (Los Angeles) _ An undeniably beautiful film based
on a 19th-century novella by Honore de Balzac, ``Passion in the
Desert'' is a heartfelt, cinematic love letter to nature that's
completely out if its mind and doesn't appear to realize it. 2{
Stars. By Bob Strauss. 
. 
TIMING-THEATER (Los Angeles) _ Whatever state of mind you're in _ a
Philadelphia, a Los Angeles, even a Cleveland _ a trip to the
Geffen Playhouse this month will be the cultural equivalent of a
mental health day. The six vignettes in David Ives' ``All in the
Timing'' have the immediacy of improv comedy with just enough
intellectual ballast. By Reed Johnson. 
. 
POP-BEAT (Los Angeles) _ North Carolina's long-running pop-rockers,
the Connells, have survived a rough year. It started when singer
Doug MacMillan required surgery that knocked the band out of
commission for months. By Fred Shuster. 
. 
DISCS-MUSIC (Los Angeles) _ Reprise's entries in Sinatra's
``Entertainer of the Century'' remaster series demonstrate his
versatility in a rich variety of settings. ``Ring-a-Ding Ding!''
was the first album Sinatra recorded for the label, which he
founded, and its brassy, swaggering sound aptly reflects the
singer's early '60s days with the Rat Pack. It's not his best
album, but it's fun. By Fred Shuster and Glenn Whipp. 
. 
SLASHER-VIDEO (Los Angeles) _ Teen slasher movies. Why do we like
them so much? Because of our fixation with sharp, pointed metallic
objects _ and young, vulnerable, voluptuous women. By Rob Lowman. 
. 
. 


',
			paragraphs: '
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0154 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:12 ',
			header: '
A4914 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-WAIT-REVIEW-LADN     06-11 0548
',
			slug: ' BC-WAIT-REVIEW-LADN ',
			headline: '
`CAN'T HARDLY WAIT' PARTIES ON
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Mix old cliches and a dash of new, instant
stereotypes, add alcohol, and crank up the music.

   That's the recipe for ``Can't Hardly Wait,'' a teen party comedy
that people too young to have seen better versions of the same
thing will probably think gets it right.

   Actually, in spite of its derivative superficiality, the movie
throws a decent enough party. It has some funny gags, it moves
along at an agreeable clip, and as the night in question stumbles
toward pass-out time, the camerawork gets appropriately sloppier.

   Game young actors embody their prefab roles with all the
conviction they could be expected to muster. And the one good idea
freshmen writer-directors Harry Elfont and Donna Kaplan came up
with _ that these graduating high schoolers come to the party
wearing fake adolescent identities, but leave stripped down to
truer, better selves _ gives this otherwise frivolous endeavor a
trickle of self-esteem.

   Basically, there's a big, unsupervised, end-of-school blowout at
some frantic girl's house, everyone goes, gets humiliated and tears
up the place. It boasts neither the polished nostalgia of
``American Graffiti'' nor the raucous subversiveness of ``Dazed and
Confused,'' but there have certainly been teen comedies with less
going for them. Bottom line: If there are chunks of your formative
years that you don't remember too clearly, you were probably at
bashes like this one.

   Among the hundreds of attendees, the honored guests are: Preston
(Ethan Embry), a sensitive, aspiring writer who sees tonight as his
big chance to approach the girl he's been pining for since freshman
year; Amanda (``Party of Five's'' Jennifer Love Hewitt), the
homecoming queen and Preston's object of affection, who has just
become available; Mike (Peter Facinelli, doing a wicked sendup of
Tom Cruise's mannerisms), the egotistical campus sports star who's
dumped longtime squeeze Amanda so he can play the field at college;
and William (Charlie Korsmo) who, with his ``X-Files''-worshiping
fellow nerds, has plotted an elaborately stupid revenge against the
bullying Mike.

   There's also Preston's friend and anti-social smart girl Denise
(Lauren Ambrose), who gets locked in an upstairs bathroom with the
ridiculous Kenny (Seth Green), a white suburban kid who affects the
attitude of an inner-city gangsta. Other guests fade briefly in and
out of focus, Jenna Elfman makes an amusing cameo as a
strip-teasing angel, and, for reasons best left unexamined, the
music of Barry Manilow achieves a kind of cosmic significance.

   But the main show here involves watching the six key characters
mutate and recombine in both predictable and unlikely patterns.
Indeed, ``Can't Hardly Wait'' has something of a high-school
science project feel in the way it tosses a few basic elements
together, introduces some simple narrative catalysts and then waits
for the sparks and smells to go off.

   But you could also say it's like cinematic party punch, laced
with too much mind-numbing stuff to actually be good but definitely
capable of getting the job done.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
 
 
OUR RATING: 3 Stars 
By BOB STRAUSS  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Mix old cliches and a dash of new, instant
stereotypes, add alcohol, and crank up the music.

   That's the recipe for ``Can't Hardly Wait,'' a teen party comedy
that people too young to have seen better versions of the same
thing will probably think gets it right.

   Actually, in spite of its derivative superficiality, the movie
throws a decent enough party. It has some funny gags, it moves
along at an agreeable clip, and as the night in question stumbles
toward pass-out time, the camerawork gets appropriately sloppier.

   Game young actors embody their prefab roles with all the
conviction they could be expected to muster. And the one good idea
freshmen writer-directors Harry Elfont and Donna Kaplan came up
with _ that these graduating high schoolers come to the party
wearing fake adolescent identities, but leave stripped down to
truer, better selves _ gives this otherwise frivolous endeavor a
trickle of self-esteem.

   Basically, there's a big, unsupervised, end-of-school blowout at
some frantic girl's house, everyone goes, gets humiliated and tears
up the place. It boasts neither the polished nostalgia of
``American Graffiti'' nor the raucous subversiveness of ``Dazed and
Confused,'' but there have certainly been teen comedies with less
going for them. Bottom line: If there are chunks of your formative
years that you don't remember too clearly, you were probably at
bashes like this one.

   Among the hundreds of attendees, the honored guests are: Preston
(Ethan Embry), a sensitive, aspiring writer who sees tonight as his
big chance to approach the girl he's been pining for since freshman
year; Amanda (``Party of Five's'' Jennifer Love Hewitt), the
homecoming queen and Preston's object of affection, who has just
become available; Mike (Peter Facinelli, doing a wicked sendup of
Tom Cruise's mannerisms), the egotistical campus sports star who's
dumped longtime squeeze Amanda so he can play the field at college;
and William (Charlie Korsmo) who, with his ``X-Files''-worshiping
fellow nerds, has plotted an elaborately stupid revenge against the
bullying Mike.

   There's also Preston's friend and anti-social smart girl Denise
(Lauren Ambrose), who gets locked in an upstairs bathroom with the
ridiculous Kenny (Seth Green), a white suburban kid who affects the
attitude of an inner-city gangsta. Other guests fade briefly in and
out of focus, Jenna Elfman makes an amusing cameo as a
strip-teasing angel, and, for reasons best left unexamined, the
music of Barry Manilow achieves a kind of cosmic significance.

   But the main show here involves watching the six key characters
mutate and recombine in both predictable and unlikely patterns.
Indeed, ``Can't Hardly Wait'' has something of a high-school
science project feel in the way it tosses a few basic elements
together, introduces some simple narrative catalysts and then waits
for the sparks and smells to go off.

   But you could also say it's like cinematic party punch, laced
with too much mind-numbing stuff to actually be good but definitely
capable of getting the job done.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0155 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:13 ',
			header: '
A4918 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-LAND-REVIEW-LADN     06-11 0568
',
			slug: ' BC-LAND-REVIEW-LADN ',
			headline: '
`LAND GIRLS' MILKS TRIVIAL SIDE OF WOMEN IN WARTIME
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ English women farming.

   Not the most exciting of movie concepts. But a serious,
convincing look at Britain's World War II Women's Land Army would
have been preferable to the insipid romanticism that fertilizes
every frame of ``The Land Girls.''

   Supposedly a paean to the plucky lasses who tilled the fields
and milked the cows while the men were off fighting Hitler, ``Land
Girls'' comes as close to trivializing an honorable endeavor as any
movie of recent vintage has. As this movie would have it, the vital
task of filling the national breadbasket was nowhere near as
empowering for city girls as learning the proper way to roll in the
hay.

   The story is set in picturesque, rural Dorset in the winter of
1941-42, though it takes a Pearl Harbor announcement and Christmas
party to confirm that; birds sing, foliage blooms and verdant green
meadows are plowed by people wearing nothing warmer than light
sweaters throughout the picture.

   Three lovely young women report for duty at the Lawrence farm _
which resembles the writings of D.H. in name and its air of
preoccupied, bucolic eroticism, if not in intelligence.
Promiscuous, working-class Prue (Anna Friel), ultra-educated virgin
Ag (Rachel Weisz) and classy catch Stella (Catherine McCormack)
instantly bond into the best of buds.

   Farmer Lawrence (Tom Georgeson) hides his heart of gold with
mildly gruff statements, to which his nice wife (Maureen O'Brien)
is forever saying ``John, please.'' The girls take him in stride,
but they are separately and collectively more bothered by the
Lawrences' sulky son Joe (Steven Mackintosh), a 4-F case who is so
angry over being rejected by the RAF that he just has to bed every
female in a thousand-acre radius.

   Prue's the first to give Joe a try, of course. Ag eventually
seeks him out for instruction. He doesn't mean much to either of
them, mind; he's a drip, and besides, they know he's engaged to a
local girl who was actually accepted into the air force. Fine and
dandy; nothing wrong with a little release of wartime tensions,
even if it takes time away from what the movie should really be
about.

   But the film is irretrievably lost when Stella and Joe truly,
ludicrously fall in love. Not only is this hound unfit to lick her
mud-encrusted boots, she has a perfectly fine fiance of her own, a
bit of a twit (like her), but a thoroughly decent naval officer
stationed not so far away. (Indeed, judging by the parties and
parades the supposedly hardworking Land Girls find time to attend,
there's an ample supply of young blokes billeted nearby, which
makes Joe's astonishing romantic success even more of a mystery).

   If they were going to take the insulting tack of turning ``The
Land Girls'' into a soap opera, director David Leland, his
co-scripter Keith Dewhurst and source novelist Angela Huth at the
very least should have made it a persuasive one. But even then, the
absence of the least bit of political context or gender
consciousness in this alleged tribute _ some 100,000 women joined
the Land Army during the war, so it obviously had significant
social impact _ this pretty piece of fake nostalgia would still be
preposterous.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients)  
 
  
OUR RATING: 2 Stars 
By BOB STRAUSS  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ English women farming.

   Not the most exciting of movie concepts. But a serious,
convincing look at Britain's World War II Women's Land Army would
have been preferable to the insipid romanticism that fertilizes
every frame of ``The Land Girls.''

   Supposedly a paean to the plucky lasses who tilled the fields
and milked the cows while the men were off fighting Hitler, ``Land
Girls'' comes as close to trivializing an honorable endeavor as any
movie of recent vintage has. As this movie would have it, the vital
task of filling the national breadbasket was nowhere near as
empowering for city girls as learning the proper way to roll in the
hay.

   The story is set in picturesque, rural Dorset in the winter of
1941-42, though it takes a Pearl Harbor announcement and Christmas
party to confirm that; birds sing, foliage blooms and verdant green
meadows are plowed by people wearing nothing warmer than light
sweaters throughout the picture.

   Three lovely young women report for duty at the Lawrence farm _
which resembles the writings of D.H. in name and its air of
preoccupied, bucolic eroticism, if not in intelligence.
Promiscuous, working-class Prue (Anna Friel), ultra-educated virgin
Ag (Rachel Weisz) and classy catch Stella (Catherine McCormack)
instantly bond into the best of buds.

   Farmer Lawrence (Tom Georgeson) hides his heart of gold with
mildly gruff statements, to which his nice wife (Maureen O'Brien)
is forever saying ``John, please.'' The girls take him in stride,
but they are separately and collectively more bothered by the
Lawrences' sulky son Joe (Steven Mackintosh), a 4-F case who is so
angry over being rejected by the RAF that he just has to bed every
female in a thousand-acre radius.

   Prue's the first to give Joe a try, of course. Ag eventually
seeks him out for instruction. He doesn't mean much to either of
them, mind; he's a drip, and besides, they know he's engaged to a
local girl who was actually accepted into the air force. Fine and
dandy; nothing wrong with a little release of wartime tensions,
even if it takes time away from what the movie should really be
about.

   But the film is irretrievably lost when Stella and Joe truly,
ludicrously fall in love. Not only is this hound unfit to lick her
mud-encrusted boots, she has a perfectly fine fiance of her own, a
bit of a twit (like her), but a thoroughly decent naval officer
stationed not so far away. (Indeed, judging by the parties and
parades the supposedly hardworking Land Girls find time to attend,
there's an ample supply of young blokes billeted nearby, which
makes Joe's astonishing romantic success even more of a mystery).

   If they were going to take the insulting tack of turning ``The
Land Girls'' into a soap opera, director David Leland, his
co-scripter Keith Dewhurst and source novelist Angela Huth at the
very least should have made it a persuasive one. But even then, the
absence of the least bit of political context or gender
consciousness in this alleged tribute _ some 100,000 women joined
the Land Army during the war, so it obviously had significant
social impact _ this pretty piece of fake nostalgia would still be
preposterous.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0156 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:22 ',
			header: '
A4933 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PASSION-REVIEW-LADN     06-11 0489
',
			slug: ' BC-PASSION-REVIEW-LADN ',
			headline: '
ANIMAL MAGNETISM TAKEN TO RIDICULOUS CONCLUSION
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ A soldier lost in the Sahara. Nearly dead, he
encounters a leopard. She doesn't eat him. Love blossoms.

   If you're not laughing your head off right now, ``Passion in the
Desert'' might appeal to you. An undeniably beautiful film, based
on a 19th-century novella by Honore de Balzac, this is a heartfelt,
cinematic love letter to nature that's completely out if its mind
and doesn't appear to realize it.

   British actor Ben Daniels is probably certifiable, too, but in a
heroic way. His three spotted co-stars _ Mowgli, Bagheera and Akela
_ were raised by the movie's animal trainers from cubhood, but
there's still no such thing as a domesticated leopard. Daniels
cuddles, wrestles, even licks his, um, leading ladies in the course
of the film, and could have had his neck snapped _ or worse _ in a
second if he ever rubbed one the wrong way.

   But we're getting ahead of the story. Daniels plays Augustin, an
officer in Napoleon's 1798 Egyptian expeditionary force. He's
escorting the general's favorite artist, named Venture (French film
veteran Michel Piccoli, hamming it up), on a sketching tour of
desert landmarks. A Mameluke attack and subsequent sandstorm
separates the duo from the rest of the French army. Dying of
thirst, Venture goes mad and kills himself while Augustin makes it
to an ancient, abandoned temple.

   Where he meets the lovely Simoom. At first, she naturally
terrifies him, especially when he watches her maul a pursuing Arab.
But then thirst forces him to confront her at the only pool of
water for miles around. She not only allows him to drink
unmolested, she seems to welcome him.

   Weeks go by, and lonely man and beast form an unlikely, weirdly
eroticized bond. Their play is quite appealing despite being a
little unsettling, but this perfect idyll can't last forever.
Mating season arrives, and Augustin actually gets so jealous of an
interloping male cat he takes to daubing himself with mud ``spots''
and padding around on all fours. But Tomcat is nothing compared to
the threat a bedraggled column of Napoleon's soldiers pose to the
relationship.

   Director-adapter Lavinia Currier has worked with big cats in
India and Africa, and you don't need to read ``this film is
dedicated to all wild animals'' on the credit crawl to know that
she adores them. The leopards are magnificently showcased in
``Passion in the Desert,'' but the unlikely scenario does them a
disservice. Remember the comic scene where the Sioux warriors dub
Kevin Costner Dances With Wolves because he looks so loony
frolicking alongside his lupine friend? Imagine that extended for
half-a-movie's length and you'll have a good inkling of how
``Passion in the Desert'' plays.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients)  
 
  
OUR RATING: 2{ Stars 
By BOB STRAUSS  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ A soldier lost in the Sahara. Nearly dead, he
encounters a leopard. She doesn't eat him. Love blossoms.

   If you're not laughing your head off right now, ``Passion in the
Desert'' might appeal to you. An undeniably beautiful film, based
on a 19th-century novella by Honore de Balzac, this is a heartfelt,
cinematic love letter to nature that's completely out if its mind
and doesn't appear to realize it.

   British actor Ben Daniels is probably certifiable, too, but in a
heroic way. His three spotted co-stars _ Mowgli, Bagheera and Akela
_ were raised by the movie's animal trainers from cubhood, but
there's still no such thing as a domesticated leopard. Daniels
cuddles, wrestles, even licks his, um, leading ladies in the course
of the film, and could have had his neck snapped _ or worse _ in a
second if he ever rubbed one the wrong way.

   But we're getting ahead of the story. Daniels plays Augustin, an
officer in Napoleon's 1798 Egyptian expeditionary force. He's
escorting the general's favorite artist, named Venture (French film
veteran Michel Piccoli, hamming it up), on a sketching tour of
desert landmarks. A Mameluke attack and subsequent sandstorm
separates the duo from the rest of the French army. Dying of
thirst, Venture goes mad and kills himself while Augustin makes it
to an ancient, abandoned temple.

   Where he meets the lovely Simoom. At first, she naturally
terrifies him, especially when he watches her maul a pursuing Arab.
But then thirst forces him to confront her at the only pool of
water for miles around. She not only allows him to drink
unmolested, she seems to welcome him.

   Weeks go by, and lonely man and beast form an unlikely, weirdly
eroticized bond. Their play is quite appealing despite being a
little unsettling, but this perfect idyll can't last forever.
Mating season arrives, and Augustin actually gets so jealous of an
interloping male cat he takes to daubing himself with mud ``spots''
and padding around on all fours. But Tomcat is nothing compared to
the threat a bedraggled column of Napoleon's soldiers pose to the
relationship.

   Director-adapter Lavinia Currier has worked with big cats in
India and Africa, and you don't need to read ``this film is
dedicated to all wild animals'' on the credit crawl to know that
she adores them. The leopards are magnificently showcased in
``Passion in the Desert,'' but the unlikely scenario does them a
disservice. Remember the comic scene where the Sioux warriors dub
Kevin Costner Dances With Wolves because he looks so loony
frolicking alongside his lupine friend? Imagine that extended for
half-a-movie's length and you'll have a good inkling of how
``Passion in the Desert'' plays.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0157 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:23 ',
			header: '
A4937 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TRAVEL-ADVISORY-NYT &LR;      06-11 0997
',
			slug: ' BC-TRAVEL-ADVISORY-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   The New York Times News Service calls your attention to the
following travel features and columns.

   The articles, which moved within the last week, are from The New
York Times (NYT), The Boston Globe (BOS), Hearst Newspapers (HNS),
Fort Worth Star-Telegram (TEX), Los Angeles Daily News (LADN), The
Arizona Republic (AZR), Cox News Service (COX) and Bloomberg News
(BLOOM).

   Photos, where indicated, have been sent to NYT photo clients.
Graphics, where indicated, have been sent to NYT graphic clients.
Nonsubscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204.

   For retransmissions of these stories, please call 212-556-1927.

   &UR; PLACES AND DESTINATIONS &LR;

   TRAVEL-BALTIMORE-BOS (Baltimore) _ There are many summer
delights in Baltimore, from clams to culture to a light rail system
visitors find useful. By Adam Pertman.

   TRAVEL-FREEDOM-BOS (Boston) _ The Freedom Trail marks sites on
the road to American liberty. By Richard Carpenter.

   TRAVEL-PORTUGAL-CASTLES-NYT (Undated) _ Exploring the
cobblestone streets and medieval castles of Portugal's hilltop
towns. By Mitchel Levitas.

   TRAVEL-PORTUGAL-EXPO-NYT (Lisbon) _ Lisbon looks to the future
as well as to its glorious maritime past with Expo '98. By Alan
Riding.

   TRAVEL-BRAZIL-NYT (Salvador, Brazil) _ Bahia makes room for a
Candomble Pantheon. By Jon Pareles.

   TRAVEL-RANCH-COX _ Most of us end up driving across the country
at least once in our lives, and that usually means driving through
Texas _ which often means driving through its Panhandle, of which
Amarillo is the capital. There're a number of uncommon sights to
see on your way through here. But there's an even more
extraordinary set of sights to break up this endlessly ordinary
terrain: Stanley Marsh's outdoor art. By Drew Jubera.

   TRAVEL-RANCHTOUR-COX _ If you're driving through the Texas
Panhandle, here's a rundown of what you can see: By Drew Jubera.

   TRAVEL-RANCHMAN-COX _ ``My daddy was rich, my momma was
good-looking and my wife's family owns a 200-square-mile ranch. So
these are my toys,'' Stanley Marsh 3 (the third generation oil and
gas heir considers III too pretentious) says of the outdoor
installations, such as Cadillac Ranch, that he has either helped
erect or commissioned. By Drew Jubera.

   ANIMAL-PARK-HNS (Lake Buena Vista, Fla.) _ We are on a
Kilimanjaro Safari in Disney World's newest theme park, Animal
Kingdom. By Michelle F. Solomon.

   TRAVEL-SWITZERLAND-HNS (Lugano, Swizerland) _ Sometimes called
the Swiss Riviera _ two words one normally doesn't associate with
each other _ the canton of Ticino has been enchanting and
disorienting visitors for centuries. It's a slice of the Italian
Lakes region that, due to 15th-century geopolitics, happens to be
within the political boundaries of Switzerland. By John Flinn.

   OUTDOORS-COLUMN-HNS (San Francisco) _ Tom Steinstra takes a
daylong flight across Northern California last week for a firsthand
look at the land, lakes and streams, a preview of the coming summer
for camping, hiking, boating and fishing.

   &UR; CONSUMER NEWS &LR;

   TRAVEL-MILENNIUM-COX _ Where will you be when the clock strikes
midnight on Dec. 31, 1999? As we fast approach the year 2000, big
celebrations and observances have already been planned around the
world. If you want to make the scene, there may be a travel book in
your future: ``The Millennium: A Rough Guide to the Year 2000.'

   AIRPORT-MALLS-NYT _ It is not easy to squeeze into a dressing
room with two pieces of carry-on luggage and a laptop to try on a
pair of jeans. And the sight of three airline captains hovering
over a table of pink lingerie at Victoria's Secret still draws a
second glance. But such scenes are quietly becoming as integral to
air travel as jet lag, weather delays and nondairy creamer. A
number of airports, somewhat surreal spaces where travelers were
once content to buy a few magazines and stare nervously at a clock,
are starting to look a lot like malls. By Jennifer Steinhauer.

   THEME-PARKS-HNS (Lake George, N.Y.) _ Oklahoma City-based
Premier Parks Inc. has had some experience at getting the biggest
bang for the buck it invests in entertainment properties. With 32
properties, the company is the world's largest owner of ``regional
theme parks'' and has purchased 12 parks since current management
took over in 1989. By Claire Hughes.

   TRAVEL-PHOTOGRAPHY-HNS (Undated) _ The sign at the
Kenya-Tanzania border checkpoint said ``It is strictly forbidden to
photograph the Masai,'' but I was finding it almost impossible to
comply. By John Flinn.

   TRAVEL-PICNICS-HNS (Undated) _ Our dinner on the island of Capri
was a picnic on a park bench. Some of my most memorable traveling
meals have been picnics. By John Flinn.

   BUSINESS-TRAVEL (Undated) _ Hotel room rates are expected to
rise slightly this year, even though occupancy rates will decline
slightly, but travelers should not be lulled into thinking they
need not book well in advance. With the economy still chugging
along, rooms will continue to be hard to come by in New York,
Boston, San Francisco, Chicago and other business cities; other
items. By Edwin McDowell.

   &UR; COLUMNS-REGULAR FEATURES &LR;

   TRAVEL-COLUMN-BOS (Undated) _ Some goings-on this summer from
all over. By Jerry Morris.

   TRAVEL-NOTES-BOS (Undated) _ Nothing marks these spots. By
Richard Carpenter.

   PRACTICAL-TRAVELER-NYT (Undated) _ How can you get anywhere if
you won't fly and can't drive? Very slowly. By Bets Wade.

   TRAVEL-BRIEFS-NYT (Undated) _ Travel notes and news: U.S our
companies venture to Iran; Denmark town celebrates 1,000 years;
Pacific Aquarium opens in Long Beach; a wetter, wilder Dollywood.

   TRAVEL-Q&AMP;A-NYT (Undated) _ The Czar's burial; Tudor events in
England; the pope in St. Louis.

   &QL;
',
			body: '

  
(ATTN: Managing editors, travel editors, feature editors)

',
			paragraphs: '
   The New York Times News Service calls your attention to the
following travel features and columns.

   The articles, which moved within the last week, are from The New
York Times (NYT), The Boston Globe (BOS), Hearst Newspapers (HNS),
Fort Worth Star-Telegram (TEX), Los Angeles Daily News (LADN), The
Arizona Republic (AZR), Cox News Service (COX) and Bloomberg News
(BLOOM).

   Photos, where indicated, have been sent to NYT photo clients.
Graphics, where indicated, have been sent to NYT graphic clients.
Nonsubscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204.

   For retransmissions of these stories, please call 212-556-1927.

   &UR; PLACES AND DESTINATIONS &LR;

   TRAVEL-BALTIMORE-BOS (Baltimore) _ There are many summer
delights in Baltimore, from clams to culture to a light rail system
visitors find useful. By Adam Pertman.

   TRAVEL-FREEDOM-BOS (Boston) _ The Freedom Trail marks sites on
the road to American liberty. By Richard Carpenter.

   TRAVEL-PORTUGAL-CASTLES-NYT (Undated) _ Exploring the
cobblestone streets and medieval castles of Portugal's hilltop
towns. By Mitchel Levitas.

   TRAVEL-PORTUGAL-EXPO-NYT (Lisbon) _ Lisbon looks to the future
as well as to its glorious maritime past with Expo '98. By Alan
Riding.

   TRAVEL-BRAZIL-NYT (Salvador, Brazil) _ Bahia makes room for a
Candomble Pantheon. By Jon Pareles.

   TRAVEL-RANCH-COX _ Most of us end up driving across the country
at least once in our lives, and that usually means driving through
Texas _ which often means driving through its Panhandle, of which
Amarillo is the capital. There're a number of uncommon sights to
see on your way through here. But there's an even more
extraordinary set of sights to break up this endlessly ordinary
terrain: Stanley Marsh's outdoor art. By Drew Jubera.

   TRAVEL-RANCHTOUR-COX _ If you're driving through the Texas
Panhandle, here's a rundown of what you can see: By Drew Jubera.

   TRAVEL-RANCHMAN-COX _ ``My daddy was rich, my momma was
good-looking and my wife's family owns a 200-square-mile ranch. So
these are my toys,'' Stanley Marsh 3 (the third generation oil and
gas heir considers III too pretentious) says of the outdoor
installations, such as Cadillac Ranch, that he has either helped
erect or commissioned. By Drew Jubera.

   ANIMAL-PARK-HNS (Lake Buena Vista, Fla.) _ We are on a
Kilimanjaro Safari in Disney World's newest theme park, Animal
Kingdom. By Michelle F. Solomon.

   TRAVEL-SWITZERLAND-HNS (Lugano, Swizerland) _ Sometimes called
the Swiss Riviera _ two words one normally doesn't associate with
each other _ the canton of Ticino has been enchanting and
disorienting visitors for centuries. It's a slice of the Italian
Lakes region that, due to 15th-century geopolitics, happens to be
within the political boundaries of Switzerland. By John Flinn.

   OUTDOORS-COLUMN-HNS (San Francisco) _ Tom Steinstra takes a
daylong flight across Northern California last week for a firsthand
look at the land, lakes and streams, a preview of the coming summer
for camping, hiking, boating and fishing.

   &UR; CONSUMER NEWS &LR;

   TRAVEL-MILENNIUM-COX _ Where will you be when the clock strikes
midnight on Dec. 31, 1999? As we fast approach the year 2000, big
celebrations and observances have already been planned around the
world. If you want to make the scene, there may be a travel book in
your future: ``The Millennium: A Rough Guide to the Year 2000.'

   AIRPORT-MALLS-NYT _ It is not easy to squeeze into a dressing
room with two pieces of carry-on luggage and a laptop to try on a
pair of jeans. And the sight of three airline captains hovering
over a table of pink lingerie at Victoria's Secret still draws a
second glance. But such scenes are quietly becoming as integral to
air travel as jet lag, weather delays and nondairy creamer. A
number of airports, somewhat surreal spaces where travelers were
once content to buy a few magazines and stare nervously at a clock,
are starting to look a lot like malls. By Jennifer Steinhauer.

   THEME-PARKS-HNS (Lake George, N.Y.) _ Oklahoma City-based
Premier Parks Inc. has had some experience at getting the biggest
bang for the buck it invests in entertainment properties. With 32
properties, the company is the world's largest owner of ``regional
theme parks'' and has purchased 12 parks since current management
took over in 1989. By Claire Hughes.

   TRAVEL-PHOTOGRAPHY-HNS (Undated) _ The sign at the
Kenya-Tanzania border checkpoint said ``It is strictly forbidden to
photograph the Masai,'' but I was finding it almost impossible to
comply. By John Flinn.

   TRAVEL-PICNICS-HNS (Undated) _ Our dinner on the island of Capri
was a picnic on a park bench. Some of my most memorable traveling
meals have been picnics. By John Flinn.

   BUSINESS-TRAVEL (Undated) _ Hotel room rates are expected to
rise slightly this year, even though occupancy rates will decline
slightly, but travelers should not be lulled into thinking they
need not book well in advance. With the economy still chugging
along, rooms will continue to be hard to come by in New York,
Boston, San Francisco, Chicago and other business cities; other
items. By Edwin McDowell.

   &UR; COLUMNS-REGULAR FEATURES &LR;

   TRAVEL-COLUMN-BOS (Undated) _ Some goings-on this summer from
all over. By Jerry Morris.

   TRAVEL-NOTES-BOS (Undated) _ Nothing marks these spots. By
Richard Carpenter.

   PRACTICAL-TRAVELER-NYT (Undated) _ How can you get anywhere if
you won't fly and can't drive? Very slowly. By Bets Wade.

   TRAVEL-BRIEFS-NYT (Undated) _ Travel notes and news: U.S our
companies venture to Iran; Denmark town celebrates 1,000 years;
Pacific Aquarium opens in Long Beach; a wetter, wilder Dollywood.

   TRAVEL-Q&AMP;A-NYT (Undated) _ The Czar's burial; Tudor events in
England; the pope in St. Louis.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0158 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:23 ',
			header: '
A4938 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-COUSIN-REVIEW-LADN     06-11 0645
',
			slug: ' BC-COUSIN-REVIEW-LADN ',
			headline: '
REVENGE IS LANGE'S TO EXACT IN `COUSIN BETTE'
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Chances are you've never read Honore de Balzac's
1846 novel, ``Cousin Bette.'' But you're probably familiar with the
kind of behavior displayed in Balzac's world _ greed, infidelity,
vanity, gluttony _ if not in your own life, then at least through
watching some Michael Douglas movie.

   The lesson of ``Cousin Bette'' could be summed up in the phrase
``Revenge is a dish best served cold.'' This is not a warm tale,
and Broadway veteran Des McAnuff's clinical directorial style does
nothing to thaw things out. But if a ``Dangerous Liaisons''-style
costume drama about the seven deadly sins sounds like your cup of
Earl Grey tea, you might find ``Cousin Bette'' a pleasant, if not
particularly absorbing, diversion.

   Jessica Lange is Bette, a woman who has been passed over so many
times in her life that she's beginning to feel like a day-old
croissant at a French boulangerie. When we first meet Bette, she's
at the bedside of her beautiful, rich, dying cousin, Adeline, who
married the man Bette loved and led the life of 19th-century
Parisian luxury that Bette believes should rightfully have been
hers.

   Soon, though, it looks like Bette's dreams may come true when
the dream man in question, the vain Hector (Hugh Laurie), pops the
question after his Adeline's death. Only the proposal isn't ``Will
you be my wife?'' It's ``Will you scrub my floors and take care of
my children?''

   Needless to say, spinster Bette doesn't jump at the chance to
become live-in maid. Brimming with bitterness, she continues to
reside on the wrong side of the Seine, working as a costumer for a
burlesque show starring the self-absorbed Jenny Cadine (Elisabeth
Shue).

   Bette is also carrying on a little fantasy of her own, leaving
her apartment door unlocked at night so a dashing _ but struggling
_ artist living downstairs can come in and steal the cheese left in
the mousetrap.

   It's when Bette takes an active role in the artist's life that
the film's revenge machinations begin to get going. The artist,
Wenceslas (Aden Young), is a talented sculptor who just needs a leg
up. Since he's easy on the eyes, the desperately lonely Bette pays
his bills and provides him with food to give him time to work. But
when Hortense (Kelly MacDonald), the spoiled daughter of Hector and
Adeline, catches a glimpse of Wenceslas' flowing hair, she decides
to betray her cousin and pursue a new-found passion for art.

   This last bit of treachery is the final straw for Bette, who, in
the capable hands of Lange, comes off as a woman who manages to
evoke both fear and sympathy. Lange has stripped herself completely
of glamour for the role, wearing her dark brown hair in a severe
bun and draping herself in drab, high-collared dresses. She never
takes the juicy character too far over the top, instead delivering
a complex portrait of a heartbroken woman seething with rage who
sets about exacting her revenge with a calculated zeal.

   McAnuff, directing his first feature film, uses the scenes in
the burlesque house to offer impudent asides to the story's main
action. Shue displays some singing ability, as well as most of her
backside, playing a woman who is the complete opposite of Bette in
appearance and temperament.

   Shue's sequences give the proceedings a bawdy sense of fun.
What's sometimes lacking, though, are the elements of spontaneity
and surprise. McAnuff spends the film's first hour establishing the
cruelty toward Bette and the last hour having Bette acting cruelly
toward others. There are a couple of bumps along the way, but the
whole thing plays out just a little too neatly to engage _ or
satisfy _ completely.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
 
 
OUR RATING: 3 Stars 
By GLENN WHIPP  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Chances are you've never read Honore de Balzac's
1846 novel, ``Cousin Bette.'' But you're probably familiar with the
kind of behavior displayed in Balzac's world _ greed, infidelity,
vanity, gluttony _ if not in your own life, then at least through
watching some Michael Douglas movie.

   The lesson of ``Cousin Bette'' could be summed up in the phrase
``Revenge is a dish best served cold.'' This is not a warm tale,
and Broadway veteran Des McAnuff's clinical directorial style does
nothing to thaw things out. But if a ``Dangerous Liaisons''-style
costume drama about the seven deadly sins sounds like your cup of
Earl Grey tea, you might find ``Cousin Bette'' a pleasant, if not
particularly absorbing, diversion.

   Jessica Lange is Bette, a woman who has been passed over so many
times in her life that she's beginning to feel like a day-old
croissant at a French boulangerie. When we first meet Bette, she's
at the bedside of her beautiful, rich, dying cousin, Adeline, who
married the man Bette loved and led the life of 19th-century
Parisian luxury that Bette believes should rightfully have been
hers.

   Soon, though, it looks like Bette's dreams may come true when
the dream man in question, the vain Hector (Hugh Laurie), pops the
question after his Adeline's death. Only the proposal isn't ``Will
you be my wife?'' It's ``Will you scrub my floors and take care of
my children?''

   Needless to say, spinster Bette doesn't jump at the chance to
become live-in maid. Brimming with bitterness, she continues to
reside on the wrong side of the Seine, working as a costumer for a
burlesque show starring the self-absorbed Jenny Cadine (Elisabeth
Shue).

   Bette is also carrying on a little fantasy of her own, leaving
her apartment door unlocked at night so a dashing _ but struggling
_ artist living downstairs can come in and steal the cheese left in
the mousetrap.

   It's when Bette takes an active role in the artist's life that
the film's revenge machinations begin to get going. The artist,
Wenceslas (Aden Young), is a talented sculptor who just needs a leg
up. Since he's easy on the eyes, the desperately lonely Bette pays
his bills and provides him with food to give him time to work. But
when Hortense (Kelly MacDonald), the spoiled daughter of Hector and
Adeline, catches a glimpse of Wenceslas' flowing hair, she decides
to betray her cousin and pursue a new-found passion for art.

   This last bit of treachery is the final straw for Bette, who, in
the capable hands of Lange, comes off as a woman who manages to
evoke both fear and sympathy. Lange has stripped herself completely
of glamour for the role, wearing her dark brown hair in a severe
bun and draping herself in drab, high-collared dresses. She never
takes the juicy character too far over the top, instead delivering
a complex portrait of a heartbroken woman seething with rage who
sets about exacting her revenge with a calculated zeal.

   McAnuff, directing his first feature film, uses the scenes in
the burlesque house to offer impudent asides to the story's main
action. Shue displays some singing ability, as well as most of her
backside, playing a woman who is the complete opposite of Bette in
appearance and temperament.

   Shue's sequences give the proceedings a bawdy sense of fun.
What's sometimes lacking, though, are the elements of spontaneity
and surprise. McAnuff spends the film's first hour establishing the
cruelty toward Bette and the last hour having Bette acting cruelly
toward others. There are a couple of bumps along the way, but the
whole thing plays out just a little too neatly to engage _ or
satisfy _ completely.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0159 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:24 ',
			header: '
A4939 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-LOVE-MOVIE-LADN     06-11 1326
',
			slug: ' BC-LOVE-MOVIE-LADN ',
			headline: '
WHAT'S WITH HER
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Jennifer Love Hewitt says it was a great chance to
act out a fantasy, playing a high school popularity queen in the
new teen party comedy ``Can't Hardly Wait.''

   Sorry, Love, but we don't quite buy that one.

   OK, you can believe the part about not being big on campus.
Hewitt's been so busy working on her demographically desirable Fox
TV series ``Party of Five,'' recording albums (they're hot in
Japan) and making hit movies such as ``I Know What You Did Last
Summer,'' she hasn't studied in an institution of secondary
learning for years.

   Indeed, her own graduation _ covered a year ago by People
magazine _ marked the first time she met her 32 fellow
correspondence school ``classmates.''

   On the other hand, Hewitt could be a walking, talking yearbook
superlative section. You easily can imagine her getting named Most
Attractive, Most Congenial, Most Popular (natch) and, of course,
Most Likely to Succeed.

   Consider the following votes of confidence:

   ``Love will do anything; she just works herself so hard and is
so sweet,'' says Harry Elfont, who co-wrote and directed the $10
million ``Can't Hardly Wait'' with Deborah Kaplan. ``I remember
once, it was really late and really cold. `Last Summer' had come
out and she was just hitting this movie stardom. She was surrounded
by this group of extras, and we gave her the option of sitting
someplace alone, by a heater, to relax. She was like, `Are you
kidding? No! I'm staying here with these guys.' ''

   ``She's a very nice girl; sweet, y'know?'' echoes ``Wait''
co-star Ethan Embry, who plays the sensitive guy who's longed in
silence, for four bittersweet years, for Hewitt's dream prom queen,
Amanda Beckett. ``I don't know what she was like on a bad day. I'm
not sure she ever had one.''

   Hewitt, 19, confirms that she indeed has her down moments. She
just doesn't let anyone know about them.

   ``I think I'm a pretty nice person; I try to be at all times,''
says Hewitt, who smiles and giggles as much in real life as ``Party
of Five's'' Sarah Reeves frets and cries. ``I'd much rather walk
away from somebody than have to be unkind. If I have a problem, or
the `sweet' thing is not working out that day, I just tend to get
very quiet.

   ``But I very rarely am mean to people; it doesn't solve or
justify anything. I figure that everybody's a human being, nobody's
really better than me and nobody's less than me. If you keep
everybody on an equal plane, it's pretty easy being nice at all
times.''

   Living your most cherished desire for half your lifespan helps,
too. Hewitt and her mom, whom she still lives with, moved to L.A.
in the late '80s, and the stage-struck girl immediately got work in
commercials and on such TV series as ``Kids Incorporated'' and
``The Byrds of Paradise.'' Since then, it's just gotten better and
better.

   ``Can't Hardly Wait'' was a chance, however, to address more
common fantasies.

   ``I've never done a character like this before,'' Hewitt says.
``I usually play the natural, girl-next-door type who never gets
the guy. Amanda is the end-all dream girl of this, and it was nice
to play a part where I get to dress up and have the hair and makeup
and be a girl.

   ``And be the prom queen! I've never been a prom queen _ well,
maybe in my room. It was fun; in the movie I have the perfect high
school existence, and if I'd actually gone it probably wouldn't
have been so perfect.''

   Hewitt admits that life in Killeen, outside of Waco, Texas, was
not for her.

   ``If I'd stayed in Texas, I would probably be a cheerleader,
going to college now, and I wouldn't be happy,'' she says. ``I love
Texas, and I'm very proud to be from there, but I didn't fit in
there.

   ``When I came to Los Angeles, it was the first time that I ever
felt like I belonged somewhere; not because it was wacky, but
because people here understood what it felt like when I performed,
and there were other kids my age who wanted to do it. I didn't get
looked at as, `God, you freak.' And there were so many other people
who were weirder than me that I actually felt normal for the first
time.''

   Hewitt continues to flourish in Hollywood. Like ``Party of
Five'' co-star Neve Campbell, she has her own horror-movie
franchise. ``We tease each other constantly about how she's the
Horror Queen and I'm the Horror Princess, and I've decided that I'm
going to follow in her footsteps.''

   Hewitt's ``Last Summer,'' like Campbell's ``Scream,'' has
spawned a sequel, ``I Still Know What You Did Last Summer,'' which
co-stars another TV teen, ``Moesha's'' Brandy, and is filming in
Mexico.

   ``I really enjoyed doing the first one, and I'm having a blast
doing the second one,'' says Hewitt, who adds that her heroine,
Julie, is even more paranoid in the sequel.

   ``But the location's way, way out in the middle of nowhere. They
gave us all snakebite kits and said, `Remember, the crew member's
your best friend. If he gets bitten, slice and suck!' It's like,
`Eeew, my God! No!' ''

   Hewitt also has a small role she describes as a ``Long Island
Lolita'' in the independent feature ``Telling You,'' and, later
this summer, will play a fast-talking record executive opposite Ben
Stiller in the music-industry comedy ``The Suburbans.''

   Then there's ``Cupid's Love,'' a romantic comedy based on a
dream Hewitt had and actually sold as a film project to New Line
Cinema. She'll both produce and star in the picture next summer, as
a lonely wedding planner who falls in love with one of her
obviously otherwise-committed clients.

   And there are at least two more seasons of ``Party of Five.''
``I wouldn't have to go a third year, but if they asked me to, I
would,'' she says. ``I don't want `Party of Five' to end. I have
such a good time, and it's a once-in-a-lifetime thing to do a show
that good.''

   As intoxicating as it all is, Hewitt realizes that factors other
than talent are contributing to her current popularity. She's
certainly in the right place at the right age, when the teen
entertainment market has exploded on all fronts, from ``Titanic''
to ``Dawson's Creek,'' and Hollywood is courting the under-20
audience more aggressively than ever.

   There's also the fact that most actual prom queens would kill to
have a figure as voluptuous as Hewitt's.

   ``The `girls' and I are very excited about their success; they
thank everybody,'' she jokes, indicating her chest. ``You know
what? They're there, and the bottom line is, our society finds eye
candy very appealing. If people like them, great.''

   Back to business: Despite the schoolgirl exuberance, Hewitt is
essentially all that. Though single now (previous boyfriends
include teen heartthrob Joey Lawrence and ``Boy Meets World''
co-star Will Friedle), don't expect to find her at a party like the
one in ``Can't Hardly Wait.''

   ``I have never actually been to a real party like this; I was
never interested,'' she admits, somewhat embarrassed. ``I'm not
anti-social, I just don't party. God, I sound so boring.''

   Well, all work and no play ... Not that one of the most popular
young actresses of her generation is really longing for peer
companionship.

   ``I push myself really hard,'' she says. ``Other than that, I
don't really let anything around me pressure me. Peer pressure was
never a big deal for me. I just didn't pay any attention to it.

   ``I know that if you put yourself in a situation where you're
going to be pressured, then you might actually find yourself in a
moral dilemma. But I'm smarter than that. I know where not to go,
who not to hang out with, what not to be around. I try to keep a
real clear head _ and most of the time, by the end of my day
there's no time for anything else,'' she says with a laugh. ``I
keep myself out of trouble that way.''
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By BOB STRAUSS  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Jennifer Love Hewitt says it was a great chance to
act out a fantasy, playing a high school popularity queen in the
new teen party comedy ``Can't Hardly Wait.''

   Sorry, Love, but we don't quite buy that one.

   OK, you can believe the part about not being big on campus.
Hewitt's been so busy working on her demographically desirable Fox
TV series ``Party of Five,'' recording albums (they're hot in
Japan) and making hit movies such as ``I Know What You Did Last
Summer,'' she hasn't studied in an institution of secondary
learning for years.

   Indeed, her own graduation _ covered a year ago by People
magazine _ marked the first time she met her 32 fellow
correspondence school ``classmates.''

   On the other hand, Hewitt could be a walking, talking yearbook
superlative section. You easily can imagine her getting named Most
Attractive, Most Congenial, Most Popular (natch) and, of course,
Most Likely to Succeed.

   Consider the following votes of confidence:

   ``Love will do anything; she just works herself so hard and is
so sweet,'' says Harry Elfont, who co-wrote and directed the $10
million ``Can't Hardly Wait'' with Deborah Kaplan. ``I remember
once, it was really late and really cold. `Last Summer' had come
out and she was just hitting this movie stardom. She was surrounded
by this group of extras, and we gave her the option of sitting
someplace alone, by a heater, to relax. She was like, `Are you
kidding? No! I'm staying here with these guys.' ''

   ``She's a very nice girl; sweet, y'know?'' echoes ``Wait''
co-star Ethan Embry, who plays the sensitive guy who's longed in
silence, for four bittersweet years, for Hewitt's dream prom queen,
Amanda Beckett. ``I don't know what she was like on a bad day. I'm
not sure she ever had one.''

   Hewitt, 19, confirms that she indeed has her down moments. She
just doesn't let anyone know about them.

   ``I think I'm a pretty nice person; I try to be at all times,''
says Hewitt, who smiles and giggles as much in real life as ``Party
of Five's'' Sarah Reeves frets and cries. ``I'd much rather walk
away from somebody than have to be unkind. If I have a problem, or
the `sweet' thing is not working out that day, I just tend to get
very quiet.

   ``But I very rarely am mean to people; it doesn't solve or
justify anything. I figure that everybody's a human being, nobody's
really better than me and nobody's less than me. If you keep
everybody on an equal plane, it's pretty easy being nice at all
times.''

   Living your most cherished desire for half your lifespan helps,
too. Hewitt and her mom, whom she still lives with, moved to L.A.
in the late '80s, and the stage-struck girl immediately got work in
commercials and on such TV series as ``Kids Incorporated'' and
``The Byrds of Paradise.'' Since then, it's just gotten better and
better.

   ``Can't Hardly Wait'' was a chance, however, to address more
common fantasies.

   ``I've never done a character like this before,'' Hewitt says.
``I usually play the natural, girl-next-door type who never gets
the guy. Amanda is the end-all dream girl of this, and it was nice
to play a part where I get to dress up and have the hair and makeup
and be a girl.

   ``And be the prom queen! I've never been a prom queen _ well,
maybe in my room. It was fun; in the movie I have the perfect high
school existence, and if I'd actually gone it probably wouldn't
have been so perfect.''

   Hewitt admits that life in Killeen, outside of Waco, Texas, was
not for her.

   ``If I'd stayed in Texas, I would probably be a cheerleader,
going to college now, and I wouldn't be happy,'' she says. ``I love
Texas, and I'm very proud to be from there, but I didn't fit in
there.

   ``When I came to Los Angeles, it was the first time that I ever
felt like I belonged somewhere; not because it was wacky, but
because people here understood what it felt like when I performed,
and there were other kids my age who wanted to do it. I didn't get
looked at as, `God, you freak.' And there were so many other people
who were weirder than me that I actually felt normal for the first
time.''

   Hewitt continues to flourish in Hollywood. Like ``Party of
Five'' co-star Neve Campbell, she has her own horror-movie
franchise. ``We tease each other constantly about how she's the
Horror Queen and I'm the Horror Princess, and I've decided that I'm
going to follow in her footsteps.''

   Hewitt's ``Last Summer,'' like Campbell's ``Scream,'' has
spawned a sequel, ``I Still Know What You Did Last Summer,'' which
co-stars another TV teen, ``Moesha's'' Brandy, and is filming in
Mexico.

   ``I really enjoyed doing the first one, and I'm having a blast
doing the second one,'' says Hewitt, who adds that her heroine,
Julie, is even more paranoid in the sequel.

   ``But the location's way, way out in the middle of nowhere. They
gave us all snakebite kits and said, `Remember, the crew member's
your best friend. If he gets bitten, slice and suck!' It's like,
`Eeew, my God! No!' ''

   Hewitt also has a small role she describes as a ``Long Island
Lolita'' in the independent feature ``Telling You,'' and, later
this summer, will play a fast-talking record executive opposite Ben
Stiller in the music-industry comedy ``The Suburbans.''

   Then there's ``Cupid's Love,'' a romantic comedy based on a
dream Hewitt had and actually sold as a film project to New Line
Cinema. She'll both produce and star in the picture next summer, as
a lonely wedding planner who falls in love with one of her
obviously otherwise-committed clients.

   And there are at least two more seasons of ``Party of Five.''
``I wouldn't have to go a third year, but if they asked me to, I
would,'' she says. ``I don't want `Party of Five' to end. I have
such a good time, and it's a once-in-a-lifetime thing to do a show
that good.''

   As intoxicating as it all is, Hewitt realizes that factors other
than talent are contributing to her current popularity. She's
certainly in the right place at the right age, when the teen
entertainment market has exploded on all fronts, from ``Titanic''
to ``Dawson's Creek,'' and Hollywood is courting the under-20
audience more aggressively than ever.

   There's also the fact that most actual prom queens would kill to
have a figure as voluptuous as Hewitt's.

   ``The `girls' and I are very excited about their success; they
thank everybody,'' she jokes, indicating her chest. ``You know
what? They're there, and the bottom line is, our society finds eye
candy very appealing. If people like them, great.''

   Back to business: Despite the schoolgirl exuberance, Hewitt is
essentially all that. Though single now (previous boyfriends
include teen heartthrob Joey Lawrence and ``Boy Meets World''
co-star Will Friedle), don't expect to find her at a party like the
one in ``Can't Hardly Wait.''

   ``I have never actually been to a real party like this; I was
never interested,'' she admits, somewhat embarrassed. ``I'm not
anti-social, I just don't party. God, I sound so boring.''

   Well, all work and no play ... Not that one of the most popular
young actresses of her generation is really longing for peer
companionship.

   ``I push myself really hard,'' she says. ``Other than that, I
don't really let anything around me pressure me. Peer pressure was
never a big deal for me. I just didn't pay any attention to it.

   ``I know that if you put yourself in a situation where you're
going to be pressured, then you might actually find yourself in a
moral dilemma. But I'm smarter than that. I know where not to go,
who not to hang out with, what not to be around. I try to keep a
real clear head _ and most of the time, by the end of my day
there's no time for anything else,'' she says with a laugh. ``I
keep myself out of trouble that way.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0160 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:24 ',
			header: '
A4941 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-LOVE-NAME-LADN     06-11 0210
',
			slug: ' BC-LOVE-NAME-LADN ',
			headline: '
IN THE NAME OF LOVE...
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Is it Jennifer Love or Love Hewitt? The question
tries men's souls.

   Everyone who likes her _ and that seems to be everyone who has
ever met her _ refers to actress Jennifer Love Hewitt simply as
Love. But whether they're being overly familiar or oddly formal has
been a mystery.

   Until now.

   ``I like to be called Love because it's different; there are a
lot of Jennifers out there,'' says Hewitt.

   But it isn't just a ``notice me!'' actress kind of thing. She
comes by the name legitimately.

   ``I was named after my mom's best friend in college; that's
where I got Love,'' she says. ``I was just going to be Love Hewitt,
but my brother, who was 9 years old at the time, told my mother
that it was kind of a weird name, and when I grew up I might want
to have a normal name to fall back on.

   ``She said, `Well, OK. But since this is your idea, you pick the
name.' He was in love at the time with this beautiful little blond
girl down the street named Jennifer, so that's how it happened.

   ``And Jennifer Love Hewitt sounded better than Love Jennifer
Hewitt.''
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
 
 
By BOB STRAUSS 
c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Is it Jennifer Love or Love Hewitt? The question
tries men's souls.

   Everyone who likes her _ and that seems to be everyone who has
ever met her _ refers to actress Jennifer Love Hewitt simply as
Love. But whether they're being overly familiar or oddly formal has
been a mystery.

   Until now.

   ``I like to be called Love because it's different; there are a
lot of Jennifers out there,'' says Hewitt.

   But it isn't just a ``notice me!'' actress kind of thing. She
comes by the name legitimately.

   ``I was named after my mom's best friend in college; that's
where I got Love,'' she says. ``I was just going to be Love Hewitt,
but my brother, who was 9 years old at the time, told my mother
that it was kind of a weird name, and when I grew up I might want
to have a normal name to fall back on.

   ``She said, `Well, OK. But since this is your idea, you pick the
name.' He was in love at the time with this beautiful little blond
girl down the street named Jennifer, so that's how it happened.

   ``And Jennifer Love Hewitt sounded better than Love Jennifer
Hewitt.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0161 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:25 ',
			header: '
A4943 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HIGHART-REVIEW-LADN     06-11 0549
',
			slug: ' BC-HIGHART-REVIEW-LADN ',
			headline: '
BRAT PACK BREAKOUT
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ From its pretentious title to its boho subject
matter _ skinny dope lesbians in underlit apartments talking about
semiotics _ ``High Art'' sets an unusually rarefied agenda for
itself.

   But while it constantly risks intellectual preciousness, the
picture is more than saved by a vibrant emotional power that's both
rich in complication and starkly naked.

   This is aided by a funny/sad performance from Patricia Clarkson
(TV's ``Murder One'') and one that's a smooth, sneaky blend of
innocence and calculation by young Australian actress Radha
Mitchell (``Love and Other Catastrophes'').

   But the heart of the movie belongs to Ally Sheedy. Yes, that
Ally Sheedy, former youth sensation of ``The Breakfast Club,''
``Short Circuit'' and other robotic product from Hollywood's 1980s
assembly line. In ``High Art,'' she plays Lucy Berliner, a
once-great photographer who has withdrawn from the commercial art
grind into a cocoon of inactivitiy, narcotics and toxic
relationships.

   Sheedy brings a rare, matter-of-fact quality to Lucy's
self-defensive self-destructiveness. But without ever getting
conventionally intense about it, she's always in touch with the
passion of a woman for whom creativity, love and pain are
inextricably linked. Sheedy sidesteps doomed-artist cliches by
maintaining a surface control over Lucy's demons; this is one
tortured-genius portrayal which illuminates an idea that is usually
just exploited.

   Mitchell's Syd is a smart college grad with a frustrating,
powerless job at a chichi New York picture magazine. She lives in a
dark apartment with a dreary boyfriend and bad plumbing. A bathroom
leak sends her upstairs, where Lucy has been hosting an omnisexual
opium den since, it appears, sometime in the '80s.

   Syd is impressed by Lucy's work. Lucy is interested that Syd's
impressed. The photographer has about had it with her girlfriend
Greta (Clarkson), a sardonically witty German junkie who has the
languid delivery of Marlene Dietrich speaking underwater. Curious
Syd would be a nice change of pace.

   Greta reminds people who don't care that she used to work for
filmmaker Rainer Werner Fassbinder. It's a funny affectation, but
an apt reference for the movie. Like the work of the late director
of ``The Marriage of Maria Braun,'' ``Fox and His Friends'' and
numerous other Teutonic psychodramas, ``High Art'' is all about the
dynamics of intimate exploitation.

   When her bosses find out Syd knows Lucy, they want to publish a
special ``she's back'' issue. This, of course, brings the young
woman further into Lucy's orbit. But both have something to gain by
manipulating the other _ and by permitting themselves to be
manipulated. The question is, can they handle the stakes of this
game?

   ``High Art'' is the feature directing debut of Lisa Cholodenko,
a film editor whose script won the screenwriting award at the
Sundance Film Festival. It's unfailingly intelligent and insightful
about the ways certain minds work.

   But it's Ally Sheedy's elegant, nerve-exposing performance that
raises the film to some level of art.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
 
 
OUR RATING: 3 Stars 
By BOB STRAUSS  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ From its pretentious title to its boho subject
matter _ skinny dope lesbians in underlit apartments talking about
semiotics _ ``High Art'' sets an unusually rarefied agenda for
itself.

   But while it constantly risks intellectual preciousness, the
picture is more than saved by a vibrant emotional power that's both
rich in complication and starkly naked.

   This is aided by a funny/sad performance from Patricia Clarkson
(TV's ``Murder One'') and one that's a smooth, sneaky blend of
innocence and calculation by young Australian actress Radha
Mitchell (``Love and Other Catastrophes'').

   But the heart of the movie belongs to Ally Sheedy. Yes, that
Ally Sheedy, former youth sensation of ``The Breakfast Club,''
``Short Circuit'' and other robotic product from Hollywood's 1980s
assembly line. In ``High Art,'' she plays Lucy Berliner, a
once-great photographer who has withdrawn from the commercial art
grind into a cocoon of inactivitiy, narcotics and toxic
relationships.

   Sheedy brings a rare, matter-of-fact quality to Lucy's
self-defensive self-destructiveness. But without ever getting
conventionally intense about it, she's always in touch with the
passion of a woman for whom creativity, love and pain are
inextricably linked. Sheedy sidesteps doomed-artist cliches by
maintaining a surface control over Lucy's demons; this is one
tortured-genius portrayal which illuminates an idea that is usually
just exploited.

   Mitchell's Syd is a smart college grad with a frustrating,
powerless job at a chichi New York picture magazine. She lives in a
dark apartment with a dreary boyfriend and bad plumbing. A bathroom
leak sends her upstairs, where Lucy has been hosting an omnisexual
opium den since, it appears, sometime in the '80s.

   Syd is impressed by Lucy's work. Lucy is interested that Syd's
impressed. The photographer has about had it with her girlfriend
Greta (Clarkson), a sardonically witty German junkie who has the
languid delivery of Marlene Dietrich speaking underwater. Curious
Syd would be a nice change of pace.

   Greta reminds people who don't care that she used to work for
filmmaker Rainer Werner Fassbinder. It's a funny affectation, but
an apt reference for the movie. Like the work of the late director
of ``The Marriage of Maria Braun,'' ``Fox and His Friends'' and
numerous other Teutonic psychodramas, ``High Art'' is all about the
dynamics of intimate exploitation.

   When her bosses find out Syd knows Lucy, they want to publish a
special ``she's back'' issue. This, of course, brings the young
woman further into Lucy's orbit. But both have something to gain by
manipulating the other _ and by permitting themselves to be
manipulated. The question is, can they handle the stakes of this
game?

   ``High Art'' is the feature directing debut of Lisa Cholodenko,
a film editor whose script won the screenwriting award at the
Sundance Film Festival. It's unfailingly intelligent and insightful
about the ways certain minds work.

   But it's Ally Sheedy's elegant, nerve-exposing performance that
raises the film to some level of art.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0162 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:26 ',
			header: '
A4945 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-DISCS-MUSIC-LADN     06-11 1009
',
			slug: ' BC-DISCS-MUSIC-LADN ',
			headline: '
BRANDY WILL `NEVER SAY NEVER'
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ &UR;  &LR; FRANKSINATRA/``Ring-a-Ding Ding!'' ``September of
My Years,'' ``Sinatra at the Sands,'' ``Francis Albert Sinatra and
Antonio Carlos Jobim''

   Reprise's entries in Sinatra's ``Entertainer of the Century''
remaster series demonstrate his versatility in a rich variety of
settings. ``Ring-a-Ding Ding!'' was the first album Sinatra
recorded for the label, which he founded, and its brassy,
swaggering sound aptly reflects the singer's early '60s days with
the Rat Pack. It's not his best album, just as ``Ocean's Eleven''
wasn't his best movie. But it's fun. 3 Stars.

   ``September of My Years'' is one of the all-time Sinatra
classics, an introspective rumination on middle age and the peaks
and valleys of life. Sinatra was nearing 50 when he recorded it,
and he infuses each song with such wistful nostalgia that you'll be
taking stock of your life as you listen to it _ even if you haven't
yet turned 30. 4 Stars.

   ``Sinatra at the Sands'' was the singer's first commercially
released concert album, and the initial two-record set has been
transferred to a single disc, which now includes a previously
unreleased version of ``Luck Be a Lady.'' Backed brilliantly by the
Count Basie Orchestra, this 1966 concert date finds Sinatra running
through most of his favorites _ ``I've Got You Under My Skin,''
``One for My Baby'' and ``Fly Me to the Moon'' are among the 16
songs _ and goofing off during some extended monologues with the
Vegas audience. A great starter disc for anyone looking to sample
Sinatra. 4 Stars.

   Sinatra's collaboration with Brazilian composer Jobim combines
some of his softest, most subtle singing with the breezy, bossa
nova rhythms of such songs as ``Dindi'' and ``How Insensitive.''
The aching longing in Sinatra's voice on the album's closer, ``Once
I Loved,'' stands as one of the greatest achievements in his
career. 4 Stars. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
BRANDY/``Never Say Never''

   The sophomore effort by the teen superstar who's so big she
makes Godzilla look like a pet gecko is a bit uneven, but
ultimately the kid pulls it off. Thanks to state-of-the-art
production and strong material like ``Almost Doesn't Count,'' ``Top
of the World'' (with rapper Mase) and the current chart-topper
``The Boy Is Mine'' (a duet with Monica), ``Never Say Never''
(Atlantic) is a top-notch urban r&AMP;b collection suitable for general
audiences. The Woodland Hills-based Brandy is still G-rated. 3
Stars. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
TRICKY/``Angels With Dirty Faces''

   At London's New Musical Express, where the Tricky backlash is in
full swing, this album was dubbed pretty much unlistenable. They're
not too far off th mark. Missing are the rich textures, original
melodies and audacious material found on Tricky's far superior
debut, ``Maxinquaye,'' or in his even earlier work with Massive
Attack. Instead, ``Angels With Dirty Faces'' (Island) mostly
resembles an atonal sound collage with Tricky and vocalist Martina
Topley-Bird burbling somewhere below the surface. Polly Harvey
makes an appearance on ``Broken Homes,'' but she, too, is buried
deep in the murk. As if dull music wasn't enough of a crime,
Tricky's hypocrisy shines through on the end track, ``Record
Companies,'' in which he blasts the corporation that pays his
bills. 1 Star. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
JIMI HENDRIX EXPERIENCE/``BBC Sessions''

   In this double-disc package are the radio sessions and most of
the TV appearances Hendrix made for the British Broadcasting Corp.
from 1967 to 1969. Included are many of the band's hits and 13
previously unreleased songs, including a couple of jams with Stevie
Wonder on drums. It's all wonderful _ there's no such thing as too
much Hendrix _ but especially welcome are such standouts as the
sturdy instrumental ``Driving South,'' ``Wait Until Tomorrow'' and
an exceptional performance of ``The Burning of the Midnight Lamp''
with a new ending. Other exciting moments on ``BBC Sessions'' (MCA)
include a stunning ``Love or Confusion,'' a complicated tune
Hendrix rarely tackled in concert. Great stuff. 3{ Stars. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
FAMILY OF GOD/``We Are the World''

   Fans of post-punk rockers Echo &AMP; the Bunnymen will certainly get
a kick out of the highly charged ``We Are the World'' (Dull
Recordings), featuring ex-Bunnymen guitarist Will Sergeant on one
track. The band uses dance beats, atmospheric electronics and
straight-ahead guitar rock to fashion a swirling neo-psychedelic
stew that recalls the best moments of Sergeant's former band.
Another plus is the sense of wry humor of Family of God's main guys
Adam Peters and Chris Brick _ standout titles include ``Help, I'm a
Rock,'' ``Atomic Little Thing'' and ``Center for the Dull.'' 3
Stars. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
GRANT LEE BUFFALO/``Jubilee''

   Grant Lee Phillips, frontman for North Hollywood's Grant Lee
Buffalo, makes a play for pop success with this thoroughly
accessible and unusually varied new disc. Items that stand a chance
at radio include ``The Shallow End,'' ``Fine How'd Ya Do,''
``Truly, Truly'' and ``My, My, My,'' each boasting very different
strengths. Phillips has matured as a songwriter and arranger,
something ``Jubilee'' (Slash/Warner Bros.), his fourth album,
reveals above all. 3 Stars. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
SOUNDTRACK/``Hope Floats''

   The 13 songs that make up the soundtrack to ``Hope Floats'' are
as much a part of the landscape of the film as the characters and
story. It's an eclectic and winning collection, from Garth Brooks'
cover of Bob Dylan's ``To Make You Feel My Love'' (from Dylan's
recent Grammy-winning ``Time Out of Mind'' album) to Bob Seger's
duet with Martina McBride on the romantic ``Chances Are.'' Along
the way, there's strong new stuff from Whiskeytown, Sheryl Crow,
Deana Carter and the Mavericks, plus newly issued covers by the
Rolling Stones, Lyle Lovett and Trisha Yearwood (doing her version
of Dylan's ``To Make You Feel My Love''). ``Hope Floats'' (Capitol)
is a terrific sampler. 3 Stars.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By FRED SHUSTER and GLENN WHIPP 
c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ &UR;  &LR; FRANKSINATRA/``Ring-a-Ding Ding!'' ``September of
My Years,'' ``Sinatra at the Sands,'' ``Francis Albert Sinatra and
Antonio Carlos Jobim''

   Reprise's entries in Sinatra's ``Entertainer of the Century''
remaster series demonstrate his versatility in a rich variety of
settings. ``Ring-a-Ding Ding!'' was the first album Sinatra
recorded for the label, which he founded, and its brassy,
swaggering sound aptly reflects the singer's early '60s days with
the Rat Pack. It's not his best album, just as ``Ocean's Eleven''
wasn't his best movie. But it's fun. 3 Stars.

   ``September of My Years'' is one of the all-time Sinatra
classics, an introspective rumination on middle age and the peaks
and valleys of life. Sinatra was nearing 50 when he recorded it,
and he infuses each song with such wistful nostalgia that you'll be
taking stock of your life as you listen to it _ even if you haven't
yet turned 30. 4 Stars.

   ``Sinatra at the Sands'' was the singer's first commercially
released concert album, and the initial two-record set has been
transferred to a single disc, which now includes a previously
unreleased version of ``Luck Be a Lady.'' Backed brilliantly by the
Count Basie Orchestra, this 1966 concert date finds Sinatra running
through most of his favorites _ ``I've Got You Under My Skin,''
``One for My Baby'' and ``Fly Me to the Moon'' are among the 16
songs _ and goofing off during some extended monologues with the
Vegas audience. A great starter disc for anyone looking to sample
Sinatra. 4 Stars.

   Sinatra's collaboration with Brazilian composer Jobim combines
some of his softest, most subtle singing with the breezy, bossa
nova rhythms of such songs as ``Dindi'' and ``How Insensitive.''
The aching longing in Sinatra's voice on the album's closer, ``Once
I Loved,'' stands as one of the greatest achievements in his
career. 4 Stars. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
BRANDY/``Never Say Never''

   The sophomore effort by the teen superstar who's so big she
makes Godzilla look like a pet gecko is a bit uneven, but
ultimately the kid pulls it off. Thanks to state-of-the-art
production and strong material like ``Almost Doesn't Count,'' ``Top
of the World'' (with rapper Mase) and the current chart-topper
``The Boy Is Mine'' (a duet with Monica), ``Never Say Never''
(Atlantic) is a top-notch urban r&AMP;b collection suitable for general
audiences. The Woodland Hills-based Brandy is still G-rated. 3
Stars. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
TRICKY/``Angels With Dirty Faces''

   At London's New Musical Express, where the Tricky backlash is in
full swing, this album was dubbed pretty much unlistenable. They're
not too far off th mark. Missing are the rich textures, original
melodies and audacious material found on Tricky's far superior
debut, ``Maxinquaye,'' or in his even earlier work with Massive
Attack. Instead, ``Angels With Dirty Faces'' (Island) mostly
resembles an atonal sound collage with Tricky and vocalist Martina
Topley-Bird burbling somewhere below the surface. Polly Harvey
makes an appearance on ``Broken Homes,'' but she, too, is buried
deep in the murk. As if dull music wasn't enough of a crime,
Tricky's hypocrisy shines through on the end track, ``Record
Companies,'' in which he blasts the corporation that pays his
bills. 1 Star. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
JIMI HENDRIX EXPERIENCE/``BBC Sessions''

   In this double-disc package are the radio sessions and most of
the TV appearances Hendrix made for the British Broadcasting Corp.
from 1967 to 1969. Included are many of the band's hits and 13
previously unreleased songs, including a couple of jams with Stevie
Wonder on drums. It's all wonderful _ there's no such thing as too
much Hendrix _ but especially welcome are such standouts as the
sturdy instrumental ``Driving South,'' ``Wait Until Tomorrow'' and
an exceptional performance of ``The Burning of the Midnight Lamp''
with a new ending. Other exciting moments on ``BBC Sessions'' (MCA)
include a stunning ``Love or Confusion,'' a complicated tune
Hendrix rarely tackled in concert. Great stuff. 3{ Stars. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
FAMILY OF GOD/``We Are the World''

   Fans of post-punk rockers Echo &AMP; the Bunnymen will certainly get
a kick out of the highly charged ``We Are the World'' (Dull
Recordings), featuring ex-Bunnymen guitarist Will Sergeant on one
track. The band uses dance beats, atmospheric electronics and
straight-ahead guitar rock to fashion a swirling neo-psychedelic
stew that recalls the best moments of Sergeant's former band.
Another plus is the sense of wry humor of Family of God's main guys
Adam Peters and Chris Brick _ standout titles include ``Help, I'm a
Rock,'' ``Atomic Little Thing'' and ``Center for the Dull.'' 3
Stars. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
GRANT LEE BUFFALO/``Jubilee''

   Grant Lee Phillips, frontman for North Hollywood's Grant Lee
Buffalo, makes a play for pop success with this thoroughly
accessible and unusually varied new disc. Items that stand a chance
at radio include ``The Shallow End,'' ``Fine How'd Ya Do,''
``Truly, Truly'' and ``My, My, My,'' each boasting very different
strengths. Phillips has matured as a songwriter and arranger,
something ``Jubilee'' (Slash/Warner Bros.), his fourth album,
reveals above all. 3 Stars. &QL; 
 &QL; 
 &QL; 
SOUNDTRACK/``Hope Floats''

   The 13 songs that make up the soundtrack to ``Hope Floats'' are
as much a part of the landscape of the film as the characters and
story. It's an eclectic and winning collection, from Garth Brooks'
cover of Bob Dylan's ``To Make You Feel My Love'' (from Dylan's
recent Grammy-winning ``Time Out of Mind'' album) to Bob Seger's
duet with Martina McBride on the romantic ``Chances Are.'' Along
the way, there's strong new stuff from Whiskeytown, Sheryl Crow,
Deana Carter and the Mavericks, plus newly issued covers by the
Rolling Stones, Lyle Lovett and Trisha Yearwood (doing her version
of Dylan's ``To Make You Feel My Love''). ``Hope Floats'' (Capitol)
is a terrific sampler. 3 Stars.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0163 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:26 ',
			header: '
A4946 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FAMILY-COLUMN-BOS &LR;      06-11 0809
',
			slug: ' BC-FAMILY-COLUMN-BOS ',
			headline: '
IT'S SPRINGTIME AND THE INVASION OF WILDLIFE BEGINS IN THE HOME
',
			trailer: '
   I've heard it said that if ever Thoreau fell into a deep sleep
in the forest, he could tell the exact date he awakened because he
knew the cycles of nature so well. By some miracle I have the exact
same skill, except I practice it at home. Without going outside, or
noting the temperature, or length of days, I can spot the arrival
of spring in a minute.

   It's marked by an invasion of my home by wildlife.

   First come the hordes of pantry moths, those tiny creatures that
appear on the first warm day. If, like me, you're too busy to empty
out cabinets right away, they gather on your ceilings, fly through
the house, and flutter their wings in front of your face. Their
convulsive flight pattern makes them impossible to ignore, yet
caught in midair and crushed between your fingers, they disappear
like a magician's coin.

   And still, they keep coming.

   After a week, I'm tossing boxes of flour and cereal into the
wastebasket with abandon. After a month, I'm on my hands and knees,
reaching into the back of a cabinet in search of spilled bird feed.
When I run out of places to ransack, I start over from the
beginning, but even when they seem to be gone, the question
lingers: How can something so insubstantial cling to life with such
determination?

   There's no time to wonder. Here come the black ants.

   They're marching up and down the sink, bivouacking in the
wastebasket, making forays across my kitchen floor. These guys are
harder to kill by hand. They're wrapped in an armor that resists
pressure at first, then collapses with a grisly pop. Constantly on
the move, they're also impossible to ignore. They don't spread
germs, like flies, or leave little souvenirs, like mice, but I find
it disconcerting to slice peppers with an ant watching me from the
edge of the cutting board.

   I tucked tins of ant poison in the corners of the room until I
found one in my dog's mouth. I stepped on them with bare feet, and
watched them stagger away unharmed. I tried talking to them about
the advantages of living outdoors and was gratified when no ants
showed up the next day. Before I could celebrate, however, a friend
explained that a chill in the air was probably slowing them down. I
finally resorted to sliding ants onto pieces of paper and throwing
them out the door. I understand there may be 100,000 more where
these came from.

   I called an exterminator for advice. He offered me his basic
household package, which contained enough poison to wipe out every
living thing in this house, including me.

   ``I'm reluctant to use pesticides,'' I explained. ``They cause
cancer and human reproductive damage, plus they're definitely not
safe for kids. I was hoping you'd suggest something like the Pied
Piper.''

   I should have whispered. I should never have revealed that I'm
more afraid of pesticides than I am of pests when little furry ears
were listening. That very afternoon, while my granddaughter and I
watched in astonishment, a gray mouse ran across the kitchen floor
and vanished under the dishwasher.

   ``The word's out that we won't use pesticides, no matter what,''
I told Jessie. ``That mouse thinks he's got me bamboozled. What can
we do?'' It was her idea to stuff the space under the dishwasher
with clay. We hoped that would keep mice out of our house, but
there must be other points of entry because the next night, as Jack
and I watched a video, a mouse tiptoed out from behind the TV and
scooted behind the couch.

   We bought a black plastic trap and put cheese in it. A week
passed without results. Jack and I gave up. It was Danny, 4, who
spotted a tail sticking out of the box. He didn't seem to be
traumatized. Thank goodness, I hadn't introduced him to E.B.
White's lovable mouse, Stuart Little. The next day we captured a
second mouse. Today we caught a third.

   With summer a week away, our visitors are now down to tolerable
levels. Well, not if you count the flies in the kitchen, which I'm
not. I'm confident they'll eventually fly into the strips of sticky
paper I've hung from the kitchen ceiling. What can I do? This house
is almost 100 years old and it seems to see its mission differently
than I do. It shelters all forms of life with absolutely no
discrimination.

   Ah, well, if I step out onto the porch off our bedroom, I can
almost believe I'm winning this war between indoors and out. Except
for the baby sparrows chirping in their nest under the eaves, all's
quiet on the western porch.

   &QL; 
 &QL; 
Linda Weltner is a freelance writer whose column appears each week
in At Home. Her new book is called ``Family Puzzles: A Private Life
Made Public'' (Innisfree Press, $13.95).
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By LINDA WELTNER 
c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   I've heard it said that if ever Thoreau fell into a deep sleep
in the forest, he could tell the exact date he awakened because he
knew the cycles of nature so well. By some miracle I have the exact
same skill, except I practice it at home. Without going outside, or
noting the temperature, or length of days, I can spot the arrival
of spring in a minute.

   It's marked by an invasion of my home by wildlife.

   First come the hordes of pantry moths, those tiny creatures that
appear on the first warm day. If, like me, you're too busy to empty
out cabinets right away, they gather on your ceilings, fly through
the house, and flutter their wings in front of your face. Their
convulsive flight pattern makes them impossible to ignore, yet
caught in midair and crushed between your fingers, they disappear
like a magician's coin.

   And still, they keep coming.

   After a week, I'm tossing boxes of flour and cereal into the
wastebasket with abandon. After a month, I'm on my hands and knees,
reaching into the back of a cabinet in search of spilled bird feed.
When I run out of places to ransack, I start over from the
beginning, but even when they seem to be gone, the question
lingers: How can something so insubstantial cling to life with such
determination?

   There's no time to wonder. Here come the black ants.

   They're marching up and down the sink, bivouacking in the
wastebasket, making forays across my kitchen floor. These guys are
harder to kill by hand. They're wrapped in an armor that resists
pressure at first, then collapses with a grisly pop. Constantly on
the move, they're also impossible to ignore. They don't spread
germs, like flies, or leave little souvenirs, like mice, but I find
it disconcerting to slice peppers with an ant watching me from the
edge of the cutting board.

   I tucked tins of ant poison in the corners of the room until I
found one in my dog's mouth. I stepped on them with bare feet, and
watched them stagger away unharmed. I tried talking to them about
the advantages of living outdoors and was gratified when no ants
showed up the next day. Before I could celebrate, however, a friend
explained that a chill in the air was probably slowing them down. I
finally resorted to sliding ants onto pieces of paper and throwing
them out the door. I understand there may be 100,000 more where
these came from.

   I called an exterminator for advice. He offered me his basic
household package, which contained enough poison to wipe out every
living thing in this house, including me.

   ``I'm reluctant to use pesticides,'' I explained. ``They cause
cancer and human reproductive damage, plus they're definitely not
safe for kids. I was hoping you'd suggest something like the Pied
Piper.''

   I should have whispered. I should never have revealed that I'm
more afraid of pesticides than I am of pests when little furry ears
were listening. That very afternoon, while my granddaughter and I
watched in astonishment, a gray mouse ran across the kitchen floor
and vanished under the dishwasher.

   ``The word's out that we won't use pesticides, no matter what,''
I told Jessie. ``That mouse thinks he's got me bamboozled. What can
we do?'' It was her idea to stuff the space under the dishwasher
with clay. We hoped that would keep mice out of our house, but
there must be other points of entry because the next night, as Jack
and I watched a video, a mouse tiptoed out from behind the TV and
scooted behind the couch.

   We bought a black plastic trap and put cheese in it. A week
passed without results. Jack and I gave up. It was Danny, 4, who
spotted a tail sticking out of the box. He didn't seem to be
traumatized. Thank goodness, I hadn't introduced him to E.B.
White's lovable mouse, Stuart Little. The next day we captured a
second mouse. Today we caught a third.

   With summer a week away, our visitors are now down to tolerable
levels. Well, not if you count the flies in the kitchen, which I'm
not. I'm confident they'll eventually fly into the strips of sticky
paper I've hung from the kitchen ceiling. What can I do? This house
is almost 100 years old and it seems to see its mission differently
than I do. It shelters all forms of life with absolutely no
discrimination.

   Ah, well, if I step out onto the porch off our bedroom, I can
almost believe I'm winning this war between indoors and out. Except
for the baby sparrows chirping in their nest under the eaves, all's
quiet on the western porch.

   &QL; 
 &QL; 
Linda Weltner is a freelance writer whose column appears each week
in At Home. Her new book is called ``Family Puzzles: A Private Life
Made Public'' (Innisfree Press, $13.95).
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0164 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:27 ',
			header: '
A4947 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-POITIER-FILMS-LADN     06-11 0868
',
			slug: ' BC-POITIER-FILMS-LADN ',
			headline: '
ACADEMY SALUTES POITIER
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ American audiences first caught a glimpse of
Sidney Poitier in 1950's ``No Way Out.'' What they witnessed was
the beginning of a long and influential career of an actor who
possessed a rare combination of erudite mannerisms and steely-eyed
intensity.

   Poitier's dynamic screen presence has opened doors for the
African-American actors who rank among the elite in their
profession today: Morgan Freeman, Laurence Fishburne, Denzel
Washington, Samuel L. Jackson and Wesley Snipes.

   The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences devotes two
nights to a salute to Poitier's contribution and work, beginning at
8 p.m. Thursday. Clips from his many films will be shown, and
colleagues including Diahann Carroll, Richard Roundtree, Richard
Benjamin, Norman Jewison and Phil Alden Robinson, who directed
Poitier in the 1992 ``Sneakers,'' will be there.

   On Friday, a restored print of ``In the Heat of the Night''
(1967), starring Poitier as a Philadelphia police detective working
on a mysterious murder in a small Southern town, screens at 8 p.m.
The event will reunite the award-winning cast that took home five
Oscars, including Best Actor for Rod Steiger, who played a redneck
sheriff who grudgingly accepts the big-city detective's help in the
case.

   Poitier was nominated for an Academy Award in 1958 for ``The
Defiant Ones,'' and five years later won a Best Actor Oscar for
``Lilies of the Field.'' His other acting credits include ``The
Blackboard Jungle'' (1955), ``To Sir With Love'' (1967) and ``Guess
Who's Coming to Dinner'' (1967).

   He directed ``Buck and the Preacher'' (1972), ``Uptown Saturday
Night'' (1974) and ``Stir Crazy'' (1980). ``Uptown Saturday Night''
paired Poitier and Bill Cosby as middle-class pals who, along with
their wives, unwittingly stumble into trouble with gangsters and
assorted bad dudes, and led to some amusing follow-ups built on the
same colorblind premise that bad things happen to good buddies.

   Tickets cost $5 for the general public, $3 for academy members.
Doors open at 7 p.m. at the academy, 8949 Wilshire Blvd., Beverly
Hills. Call (310) 247-3600 for information.

   CREME DE LA CRIME: A five-weekend series of classic French crime
and gangster films, starts tonight with a double feature at the
Raleigh Studios' Charlie Chaplin Theater.

   All films in the ``Jean-Pierre Melville and the French Crime
Film'' series are in French with English subtitles. ``The French
crime film was the very definition of !ital!cool!off! _ a
quicksilver world of silent killers and speeding Citroens,''
according to sponsor American Cinematheque.

   Tonight opens with ``Classe Tout Risque'' by director Claude
Sautet, which was forgotten until last year's Telluride Film
Festival. Lino Ventura plays a fading gangster who, with his wife
and family, runs from the mob. ``Classe Tour Risque'' screens at
7:15 tonight and 9:45 p.m. Saturday.

   Also tonight at 9:45 is ``Bob Le Flambeur,'' Jean-Pierre
Melville's nostalgic 1955 film about the rough-and-tumble days of
casino takeovers and shifty men and women in the Montamarte
district of Paris.

   The theater is at 5300 Melrose Ave., Hollywood. Tickets cost $7
general admission, $4 for American Cinematheque members. For
tickets, call (213) 466-3456, Ext. 3.

   SPIES, SPIES, SPIES: The '60s spy spoof ``Austin Powers,
International Man of Mystery'' was good for laughs, but how does
Mike Myers stack up against his suave predecessors who saved the
world from villains and looked like a million bucks in a tux?

   Find out June 19-25 when the Nuart Theatre puts up a week's
worth of mostly lighthearted Cold War spy pictures, starting with
Dean Martin as Matt Helm in ``The Silencers,'` followed by the '96
spoof ``Austin Powers.'' Sean Connery (007 himself) does a double
Bond feature June 20 with ``Goldfinger'' and ``From Russia With
Love.''

   On opening night, the bowler hat worn by TV's ``The Avengers''
John Steed will be on display in the theater lobby. David Niven,
Diana Rigg, Rod Taylor, James Mason, Peter Sellers, Donald
Sutherland and Orson Welles are headliners in the weeklong program.

   The Nuart is at 11272 Santa Monica Blvd., Los Angeles. Call
(310) 478-6379 for program and ticket information.

   Q &AMP; A WITH SCREENWRITER: Writer and director Don Roos will
appear at 7:30 p.m. Saturday at the Regent Westlake Theaters to
answer audience questions after the screening of his newest film
``The Opposite of Sex.''

   His appearance opens the Regent's 1998 series of eight
independent releases, providing contemporary filmmakers and their
viewing audience a meeting point for some discussion. ``The
Opposite of Sex'' stars Christina Ricci, Lisa Kudrow and Lyle
Lovett, and is ``about sex and the connections it makes in our
lives, as well as the consequences of having sex with somebody,''
Roos says.

   The Regent Westlake Theaters, located on Agoura Road in Weslake
Village, is a leading venue for art, foreign and specialty films in
Ventura County. For information, call (818) 889-2388.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By BOB McCARTHY  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ American audiences first caught a glimpse of
Sidney Poitier in 1950's ``No Way Out.'' What they witnessed was
the beginning of a long and influential career of an actor who
possessed a rare combination of erudite mannerisms and steely-eyed
intensity.

   Poitier's dynamic screen presence has opened doors for the
African-American actors who rank among the elite in their
profession today: Morgan Freeman, Laurence Fishburne, Denzel
Washington, Samuel L. Jackson and Wesley Snipes.

   The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences devotes two
nights to a salute to Poitier's contribution and work, beginning at
8 p.m. Thursday. Clips from his many films will be shown, and
colleagues including Diahann Carroll, Richard Roundtree, Richard
Benjamin, Norman Jewison and Phil Alden Robinson, who directed
Poitier in the 1992 ``Sneakers,'' will be there.

   On Friday, a restored print of ``In the Heat of the Night''
(1967), starring Poitier as a Philadelphia police detective working
on a mysterious murder in a small Southern town, screens at 8 p.m.
The event will reunite the award-winning cast that took home five
Oscars, including Best Actor for Rod Steiger, who played a redneck
sheriff who grudgingly accepts the big-city detective's help in the
case.

   Poitier was nominated for an Academy Award in 1958 for ``The
Defiant Ones,'' and five years later won a Best Actor Oscar for
``Lilies of the Field.'' His other acting credits include ``The
Blackboard Jungle'' (1955), ``To Sir With Love'' (1967) and ``Guess
Who's Coming to Dinner'' (1967).

   He directed ``Buck and the Preacher'' (1972), ``Uptown Saturday
Night'' (1974) and ``Stir Crazy'' (1980). ``Uptown Saturday Night''
paired Poitier and Bill Cosby as middle-class pals who, along with
their wives, unwittingly stumble into trouble with gangsters and
assorted bad dudes, and led to some amusing follow-ups built on the
same colorblind premise that bad things happen to good buddies.

   Tickets cost $5 for the general public, $3 for academy members.
Doors open at 7 p.m. at the academy, 8949 Wilshire Blvd., Beverly
Hills. Call (310) 247-3600 for information.

   CREME DE LA CRIME: A five-weekend series of classic French crime
and gangster films, starts tonight with a double feature at the
Raleigh Studios' Charlie Chaplin Theater.

   All films in the ``Jean-Pierre Melville and the French Crime
Film'' series are in French with English subtitles. ``The French
crime film was the very definition of !ital!cool!off! _ a
quicksilver world of silent killers and speeding Citroens,''
according to sponsor American Cinematheque.

   Tonight opens with ``Classe Tout Risque'' by director Claude
Sautet, which was forgotten until last year's Telluride Film
Festival. Lino Ventura plays a fading gangster who, with his wife
and family, runs from the mob. ``Classe Tour Risque'' screens at
7:15 tonight and 9:45 p.m. Saturday.

   Also tonight at 9:45 is ``Bob Le Flambeur,'' Jean-Pierre
Melville's nostalgic 1955 film about the rough-and-tumble days of
casino takeovers and shifty men and women in the Montamarte
district of Paris.

   The theater is at 5300 Melrose Ave., Hollywood. Tickets cost $7
general admission, $4 for American Cinematheque members. For
tickets, call (213) 466-3456, Ext. 3.

   SPIES, SPIES, SPIES: The '60s spy spoof ``Austin Powers,
International Man of Mystery'' was good for laughs, but how does
Mike Myers stack up against his suave predecessors who saved the
world from villains and looked like a million bucks in a tux?

   Find out June 19-25 when the Nuart Theatre puts up a week's
worth of mostly lighthearted Cold War spy pictures, starting with
Dean Martin as Matt Helm in ``The Silencers,'` followed by the '96
spoof ``Austin Powers.'' Sean Connery (007 himself) does a double
Bond feature June 20 with ``Goldfinger'' and ``From Russia With
Love.''

   On opening night, the bowler hat worn by TV's ``The Avengers''
John Steed will be on display in the theater lobby. David Niven,
Diana Rigg, Rod Taylor, James Mason, Peter Sellers, Donald
Sutherland and Orson Welles are headliners in the weeklong program.

   The Nuart is at 11272 Santa Monica Blvd., Los Angeles. Call
(310) 478-6379 for program and ticket information.

   Q &AMP; A WITH SCREENWRITER: Writer and director Don Roos will
appear at 7:30 p.m. Saturday at the Regent Westlake Theaters to
answer audience questions after the screening of his newest film
``The Opposite of Sex.''

   His appearance opens the Regent's 1998 series of eight
independent releases, providing contemporary filmmakers and their
viewing audience a meeting point for some discussion. ``The
Opposite of Sex'' stars Christina Ricci, Lisa Kudrow and Lyle
Lovett, and is ``about sex and the connections it makes in our
lives, as well as the consequences of having sex with somebody,''
Roos says.

   The Regent Westlake Theaters, located on Agoura Road in Weslake
Village, is a leading venue for art, foreign and specialty films in
Ventura County. For information, call (818) 889-2388.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0165 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:27 ',
			header: '
A4948 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PASSION-FILM-REVIEW-N     06-11 0534
',
			slug: ' BC-PASSION-FILM-REVIEW-NYT ',
			headline: '
`PASSION IN THE DESERT': A VISUALLY MESMERIZING TALE 
',
			trailer: '
   Cultures clash and man and animal achieve transcendent communion
in the fever dream that is ``Passion in the Desert.''

   With its background of war, its desert setting, its story of
overpowering love and its literary roots, Lavinia Currier's film is
reminiscent of ``The English Patient.''

   Though far from its equal, ``Passion in the Desert'' is
nevertheless an engrossing, visually mesmerizing tale that
resonates with reverence for nature, beauty and animal life.

   Filmed in the red desert landscapes of Petra, Jordan, and Moab,
Utah, this story, based on a novella by Honore de Balzac, focuses
on Augustin (Ben Daniels), a young French officer in Napoleon's
forces in Egypt in 1798.

   Augustin is the escort for Venture (Michel Piccoli), a grizzled
artist sensitive to the natives' beliefs in djinns, chimera and
flying snakes who has been dispatched on Bonaparte's orders to
record the archeological and natural splendors of the terrain.

   In the company of a small detachment of soldiers who take
boorish pleasure in firing shells at a statue of the Sphinx, they
are attacked by Mameluke forces and eventually separated from their
comrades. Although Augustin believes that between the Nile and the
sea, it is impossible to become lost in Egypt, the two are soon
staggering through the trackless terrain, with Venture using the
last of their water to mix his paints.

   Eventually, Venture remains behind in the shade of a tree,
drinking his paints to survive, while Augustin sets out for help, a
journey that leads him to take refuge in a cave from angry
Bedouins.

   It is there that the hunted man encounters the sleek leopard he
comes to call Simoon, after the desert wind; the two begin a
surreal relationship of love, jealousy and betrayal that bares the
animal in the man and the humanity in the beast.

   Ms. Currier, who produced and wrote ``Passion in the Desert'' as
well as directing it, is at her best in the depiction of the tense
and tender relationship between the beautiful animal and lonely
Augustin, while the historical background and, to a lesser extent,
the cultural differences between the French and the natives seem
slight in comparison.

   Aleksei Rodionov (``Orlando''), as the director of photography,
makes the landscape alluring, and the leopard trainers, Rick and
Judy Glassey of Jungle Bookings, accomplish remarkable feats.

   Daniels, as the blond, blue-eyed interloper, makes credible
Augustin's torturous journey between two worlds.
 &UR; ``Passion in the Desert'':  &LR;  Produced and directed by Lavinia
Currier; written by Ms. Currier and Martin Edmunds, based on the
novella by Honore de Balzac; director of photography, Alexei
Rodionov; edited by Nicolas Gaster; music by Jose Nieto; production
designer, Amanda McArthur; leopard trainers, Rick and Judy Glassey;
released by Fine Line Features. Running time: 93 minutes. This film
is rated PG-13.

   With: Ben Daniels (Augustin), Michel Piccoli (Venture), Paul
Meston (Grognard), Kenneth Collard (Officer) and Nadi Odeh (Bedouin
Bride).  &QL;
',
			body: '


  (ja) 
 By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   Cultures clash and man and animal achieve transcendent communion
in the fever dream that is ``Passion in the Desert.''

   With its background of war, its desert setting, its story of
overpowering love and its literary roots, Lavinia Currier's film is
reminiscent of ``The English Patient.''

   Though far from its equal, ``Passion in the Desert'' is
nevertheless an engrossing, visually mesmerizing tale that
resonates with reverence for nature, beauty and animal life.

   Filmed in the red desert landscapes of Petra, Jordan, and Moab,
Utah, this story, based on a novella by Honore de Balzac, focuses
on Augustin (Ben Daniels), a young French officer in Napoleon's
forces in Egypt in 1798.

   Augustin is the escort for Venture (Michel Piccoli), a grizzled
artist sensitive to the natives' beliefs in djinns, chimera and
flying snakes who has been dispatched on Bonaparte's orders to
record the archeological and natural splendors of the terrain.

   In the company of a small detachment of soldiers who take
boorish pleasure in firing shells at a statue of the Sphinx, they
are attacked by Mameluke forces and eventually separated from their
comrades. Although Augustin believes that between the Nile and the
sea, it is impossible to become lost in Egypt, the two are soon
staggering through the trackless terrain, with Venture using the
last of their water to mix his paints.

   Eventually, Venture remains behind in the shade of a tree,
drinking his paints to survive, while Augustin sets out for help, a
journey that leads him to take refuge in a cave from angry
Bedouins.

   It is there that the hunted man encounters the sleek leopard he
comes to call Simoon, after the desert wind; the two begin a
surreal relationship of love, jealousy and betrayal that bares the
animal in the man and the humanity in the beast.

   Ms. Currier, who produced and wrote ``Passion in the Desert'' as
well as directing it, is at her best in the depiction of the tense
and tender relationship between the beautiful animal and lonely
Augustin, while the historical background and, to a lesser extent,
the cultural differences between the French and the natives seem
slight in comparison.

   Aleksei Rodionov (``Orlando''), as the director of photography,
makes the landscape alluring, and the leopard trainers, Rick and
Judy Glassey of Jungle Bookings, accomplish remarkable feats.

   Daniels, as the blond, blue-eyed interloper, makes credible
Augustin's torturous journey between two worlds.
 &UR; ``Passion in the Desert'':  &LR;  Produced and directed by Lavinia
Currier; written by Ms. Currier and Martin Edmunds, based on the
novella by Honore de Balzac; director of photography, Alexei
Rodionov; edited by Nicolas Gaster; music by Jose Nieto; production
designer, Amanda McArthur; leopard trainers, Rick and Judy Glassey;
released by Fine Line Features. Running time: 93 minutes. This film
is rated PG-13.

   With: Ben Daniels (Augustin), Michel Piccoli (Venture), Paul
Meston (Grognard), Kenneth Collard (Officer) and Nadi Odeh (Bedouin
Bride).  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0166 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:27 ',
			header: '
A4949 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-POP-BEAT-LADN     06-11 0463
',
			slug: ' BC-POP-BEAT-LADN ',
			headline: '
CAROLINA ROCKERS COMING OFF FRUSTRATING YEAR
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ &UR;  &LR; North Carolina's long-running pop-rockers the
Connells have survived a rough year.

   It started when singer Doug MacMillan required surgery for an
intestinal illness, which knocked the band out of commission for
months. He wasn't able to sing until late last summer.

   There were other problems to be dealt with, too, before the
Connells could begin recording their just-released seventh album,
``Still Life'' (TVT).

   ``We had a lot of time to pull things together,'' said guitarist
Mike Connell, who formed the group 14 years ago with his bassist
brother David. ``All those months we thought we'd be playing and
touring, we found ourselves at home in Raleigh. We felt a little
snaked. It was a tough year.''

   The Connells appear Thursday at the Troubadour in West
Hollywood.

   ``I haven't noticed a huge change in the state of music,''
Connell said. ``But we have strong audiences in various places
throughout the country.''

   As for the brothers syndrome, Connell says he and his sibling
get along well these days.

   ``We've had a few flareups over the years,'' he said. ``Only on
one occasion did it come to blows and that was nine years ago. Now
we get along really well, given all that's happened over the last
few years. We're all pretty conscious of our mortality.''

   COLLABORATING CROWS: &UR;  &LR; Counting Crows haven't left the nest in
some time, but at least two members have worked on outside
projects.

   Crows rhythm guitarist David Bryson mixed the self-titled debut
album from San Francisco quintet Train, whose sound has been
likened to that of the Wallflowers. In addition, Counting Crows
keyboardist Charlie Gillingham helped out.

   ``Those guys have been around with us musically for years,''
explained Train singer Patrick Monahan. ``We asked Charlie to lay
some keyboards down, and he did a great job. Then, when we were
done recording the album, we wanted someone to mix who had the time
and enough money where we wouldn't have to pay them right away.''

   That's where Bryson stepped in. Train appears at 9:30 tonight at
the Viper Room in West Hollywood.

   ``Radio play wasn't an initial goal,'' Monahan said. ``We said,
`Let's make a record and see if we can sell a couple hundred.' If
you start with aiming to sell a million, then you have to deal with
the bad side of things if it doesn't pan out.''

   COMING THIS WAY: On Aug. 8, the Mind to Mouth Festival comes to
the Thousand Oaks Civic Arts Plaza. The event features the bands
Formula, Hoobusank, Fiasco and Phatty, plus a disc jockey. Tickets
are $10, available at Ticketmaster.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By FRED SHUSTER 
c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ &UR;  &LR; North Carolina's long-running pop-rockers the
Connells have survived a rough year.

   It started when singer Doug MacMillan required surgery for an
intestinal illness, which knocked the band out of commission for
months. He wasn't able to sing until late last summer.

   There were other problems to be dealt with, too, before the
Connells could begin recording their just-released seventh album,
``Still Life'' (TVT).

   ``We had a lot of time to pull things together,'' said guitarist
Mike Connell, who formed the group 14 years ago with his bassist
brother David. ``All those months we thought we'd be playing and
touring, we found ourselves at home in Raleigh. We felt a little
snaked. It was a tough year.''

   The Connells appear Thursday at the Troubadour in West
Hollywood.

   ``I haven't noticed a huge change in the state of music,''
Connell said. ``But we have strong audiences in various places
throughout the country.''

   As for the brothers syndrome, Connell says he and his sibling
get along well these days.

   ``We've had a few flareups over the years,'' he said. ``Only on
one occasion did it come to blows and that was nine years ago. Now
we get along really well, given all that's happened over the last
few years. We're all pretty conscious of our mortality.''

   COLLABORATING CROWS: &UR;  &LR; Counting Crows haven't left the nest in
some time, but at least two members have worked on outside
projects.

   Crows rhythm guitarist David Bryson mixed the self-titled debut
album from San Francisco quintet Train, whose sound has been
likened to that of the Wallflowers. In addition, Counting Crows
keyboardist Charlie Gillingham helped out.

   ``Those guys have been around with us musically for years,''
explained Train singer Patrick Monahan. ``We asked Charlie to lay
some keyboards down, and he did a great job. Then, when we were
done recording the album, we wanted someone to mix who had the time
and enough money where we wouldn't have to pay them right away.''

   That's where Bryson stepped in. Train appears at 9:30 tonight at
the Viper Room in West Hollywood.

   ``Radio play wasn't an initial goal,'' Monahan said. ``We said,
`Let's make a record and see if we can sell a couple hundred.' If
you start with aiming to sell a million, then you have to deal with
the bad side of things if it doesn't pan out.''

   COMING THIS WAY: On Aug. 8, the Mind to Mouth Festival comes to
the Thousand Oaks Civic Arts Plaza. The event features the bands
Formula, Hoobusank, Fiasco and Phatty, plus a disc jockey. Tickets
are $10, available at Ticketmaster.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0167 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:28 ',
			header: '
A4952 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SLASHER-VIDEO-LADN     06-11 0890
',
			slug: ' BC-SLASHER-VIDEO-LADN ',
			headline: '
TALK ABOUT FILMS ON THE CUTTING EDGE
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Let's get to the point:

   Slasher movies keep bringing audiences into theaters because of
our fixation with sharp, pointed metallic objects _ and young,
vulnerable, voluptuous women.

   Think about the shower scene in ``Psycho'' (1960), which is the
film that really spawned the genre. (Blame Alfred Hitchcock, but if
he were alive, he'd probably blame his parents _ but that's another
story.)

   Do you think that if the in-drag Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins)
had attacked Marion Crane (Janet Leigh) with a gun instead in the
infamous shower scene, people would have been squirming in their
seats? Bang, your dead. Well, that's over.

   No, to keep the audience on edge, you need a number of cuts _
both film and knife _ to extend the moment and horror as well as
the titillation. Hitchcock claimed that you could see a nude Leigh
if you looked carefully, something verboten back then. Add Leigh's
piercing scream to composer Bernard Herrmann's shreiking violins
and you have movie history. By the way, Norman blamed Mom for his
little homicidal episodes.

   The characters in ``Psycho'' were all adults, however. It wasn't
till 1978 that the teen slasher movie made its mark with John
Carpenter's ``Halloween,'' which starred Leigh's daughter, Jamie
Lee Curtis, who plays a bookish baby sitter who must stay at home
on Halloween night with her charges watching old scary movies on
television. But trick or treat turns to terror when she is stalked
by a masked man who has escaped from a mental institution. He had
been held there since he was 6, after he stabbed to death his
sister and her boyfriend while they were making love. Though not in
the class of ``Psycho,'' Carpenter crafted a superb thriller, with
minimum gore and maximum chills.

   That can't be said for ``Friday the 13th,'' which came out in
1980. ``Friday'' pretty much dispensed with any psychological
underpinings. The plot, if you can call it one, revolves around a
hockey mask-wearing maniac who slices and dices his way through a
group of camp counselors (one of them Kevin Bacon). The description
of splatterfest and not much else is appropriate. The message:
Never have sex when a slasher is around.

   Despite its less-than-artistic intention, ``Friday,'' like
``Halloween,'' carved out a profitable niche at the box office,
resulting in numerous bad sequels (including those for ``Psycho,''
which probably had Hitchcock rolling over in his grave) and
murderous copycat knockoffs.

   It took Wes Craven's 1984 ``Nightmare on Elm Street'' to rescue
the genre. ``Nighmare'' introduced Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund)
with his scarred face, raggedy clothes and metal gloves with knives
at the end. But Craven, a former English professor, was using the
bloodletting formula to tap into his audience's inner fears, and
the story cleverly blurs the boundaries of dreams and reality.

   It then took Craven and screenwriter Kevin Williamson to
re-invent teen slasher with the runaway success of ``Scream''
(1996), which dissects the elements of the genre and serves them up
to the audience in a deliciously grotesque manner. It's a group of
teens in peril, of course. This time the black-shrouded killer
wears a mask that looks like the face in ``Scream,'' the famous
painting by Edvard Munch. As the bodies and macabre jokes pile up,
the teens gather for a party where they watch (what else?) a
slasher movie starring Curtis. (Remember what Curtis was doing when
she was stalked?)

   ``When are we going to see Jamie Lee's breasts?'' asks one horny
youth. Randy, the resident movie freak/video clerk, sets him
straight on that point _ never _ and then he tells the inebriated
crew the rules of slasher movies: Don't answer the door, have sex,
abuse drugs or alcohol, and never say, ``I'll be right back.''

   Well, rules are made to be broken. The film stars Neve Campbell
as Sidney Prescott, the primary obsession of the butcher (who also
has a mother to blame), and she, like the rest of the teens, sees
her life as a movie. When it's suggested that Meg Ryan could play
her, Sidney responds, ``With my luck they would cast Tori
Spelling.''

   And that is precisely what happens in ``Scream 2,'' which hit
video stores this week. Spelling is the star of ``Stab,'' the
intentionally ludicrous film-within-a-film that is supposed to tell
Sidney's story.

   ``Scream 2'' picks up two years later, and sequels, Randy tells
us, have rules, too: a higher body count and more elaborate
violence than the originals.

   Sidney now has moved on to college. It is during a packed
screening of ``Stab'' at the local theater _ where many in the
audience are dressed as the Grim Reaper-looking slasher _ that the
new killer (dressed appropriately) first strikes. It's an inventive
scene that encompasses the pop references, self-referential jokes,
suspense and terror that make the ``Scream'' films a cut _ actually
a number of cuts _ above the rest of the genre.

   As for these twin obsessions of pointed metallic objects and
voluptuous young women, I suggest you consult _ or blame _ Sigmund
Freud.

   After all, this is just a video column, and you get the point.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By ROB LOWMAN  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Let's get to the point:

   Slasher movies keep bringing audiences into theaters because of
our fixation with sharp, pointed metallic objects _ and young,
vulnerable, voluptuous women.

   Think about the shower scene in ``Psycho'' (1960), which is the
film that really spawned the genre. (Blame Alfred Hitchcock, but if
he were alive, he'd probably blame his parents _ but that's another
story.)

   Do you think that if the in-drag Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins)
had attacked Marion Crane (Janet Leigh) with a gun instead in the
infamous shower scene, people would have been squirming in their
seats? Bang, your dead. Well, that's over.

   No, to keep the audience on edge, you need a number of cuts _
both film and knife _ to extend the moment and horror as well as
the titillation. Hitchcock claimed that you could see a nude Leigh
if you looked carefully, something verboten back then. Add Leigh's
piercing scream to composer Bernard Herrmann's shreiking violins
and you have movie history. By the way, Norman blamed Mom for his
little homicidal episodes.

   The characters in ``Psycho'' were all adults, however. It wasn't
till 1978 that the teen slasher movie made its mark with John
Carpenter's ``Halloween,'' which starred Leigh's daughter, Jamie
Lee Curtis, who plays a bookish baby sitter who must stay at home
on Halloween night with her charges watching old scary movies on
television. But trick or treat turns to terror when she is stalked
by a masked man who has escaped from a mental institution. He had
been held there since he was 6, after he stabbed to death his
sister and her boyfriend while they were making love. Though not in
the class of ``Psycho,'' Carpenter crafted a superb thriller, with
minimum gore and maximum chills.

   That can't be said for ``Friday the 13th,'' which came out in
1980. ``Friday'' pretty much dispensed with any psychological
underpinings. The plot, if you can call it one, revolves around a
hockey mask-wearing maniac who slices and dices his way through a
group of camp counselors (one of them Kevin Bacon). The description
of splatterfest and not much else is appropriate. The message:
Never have sex when a slasher is around.

   Despite its less-than-artistic intention, ``Friday,'' like
``Halloween,'' carved out a profitable niche at the box office,
resulting in numerous bad sequels (including those for ``Psycho,''
which probably had Hitchcock rolling over in his grave) and
murderous copycat knockoffs.

   It took Wes Craven's 1984 ``Nightmare on Elm Street'' to rescue
the genre. ``Nighmare'' introduced Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund)
with his scarred face, raggedy clothes and metal gloves with knives
at the end. But Craven, a former English professor, was using the
bloodletting formula to tap into his audience's inner fears, and
the story cleverly blurs the boundaries of dreams and reality.

   It then took Craven and screenwriter Kevin Williamson to
re-invent teen slasher with the runaway success of ``Scream''
(1996), which dissects the elements of the genre and serves them up
to the audience in a deliciously grotesque manner. It's a group of
teens in peril, of course. This time the black-shrouded killer
wears a mask that looks like the face in ``Scream,'' the famous
painting by Edvard Munch. As the bodies and macabre jokes pile up,
the teens gather for a party where they watch (what else?) a
slasher movie starring Curtis. (Remember what Curtis was doing when
she was stalked?)

   ``When are we going to see Jamie Lee's breasts?'' asks one horny
youth. Randy, the resident movie freak/video clerk, sets him
straight on that point _ never _ and then he tells the inebriated
crew the rules of slasher movies: Don't answer the door, have sex,
abuse drugs or alcohol, and never say, ``I'll be right back.''

   Well, rules are made to be broken. The film stars Neve Campbell
as Sidney Prescott, the primary obsession of the butcher (who also
has a mother to blame), and she, like the rest of the teens, sees
her life as a movie. When it's suggested that Meg Ryan could play
her, Sidney responds, ``With my luck they would cast Tori
Spelling.''

   And that is precisely what happens in ``Scream 2,'' which hit
video stores this week. Spelling is the star of ``Stab,'' the
intentionally ludicrous film-within-a-film that is supposed to tell
Sidney's story.

   ``Scream 2'' picks up two years later, and sequels, Randy tells
us, have rules, too: a higher body count and more elaborate
violence than the originals.

   Sidney now has moved on to college. It is during a packed
screening of ``Stab'' at the local theater _ where many in the
audience are dressed as the Grim Reaper-looking slasher _ that the
new killer (dressed appropriately) first strikes. It's an inventive
scene that encompasses the pop references, self-referential jokes,
suspense and terror that make the ``Scream'' films a cut _ actually
a number of cuts _ above the rest of the genre.

   As for these twin obsessions of pointed metallic objects and
voluptuous young women, I suggest you consult _ or blame _ Sigmund
Freud.

   After all, this is just a video column, and you get the point.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0168 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:29 ',
			header: '
A4953 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  AM-PAGE1-CONSIDER-NYT     06-11 0457
',
			slug: '',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here are the stories New York Times editors are considering for
Page 1, Friday, June 12. The N.Y. Times News Service Night
Supervisor is Pat Ryan (212-556-1927).

   INTERNATIONAL

   (Will move in ``i'' news file.)

   CHINA-CLINTON (Washington) _ Forced by an angry Congress to
justify his coming summit meeting in China, President Clinton on
Thursday described his policy of cooperation with Beijing as
``principled and pragmatic,'' and said he was engaging China on
shared commercial and security issues while not turning a blind eye
to the troubling human rights record. By John M. Broder.

   With: CHINA-CONGRESS

   KOSOVO-NATO (Brussels, Belgium) _ NATO defense ministers called
Thursday for a huge show of force in the air over Albania, with
simulated bombing and strafing raids and mock troop deployments to
give the Yugoslav president a taste of the power that could be
turned against him if he does not stop attacks on the province of
Kosovo. By Craig R. Whitney.

   With: KOSOVO-RUSSIA

   WASHINGTON

   (Will move in ``w'' news file.)

   TOBACCO-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The Senate is expected to vote
on a proposal to limit lawyers' fees in tobacco suits to $1,000 an
hour. By David E. Rosenbaum.

   CAMPAIGN-FINANCE (Washington) _ Campaign finance developments.
By Alison Mitchell.

   NATIONAL-GENERAL

   (Will move in ``a'' news file.)

   CLINTON-JONES (Undated) _ In rejecting a possible settlement of
her sexual misconduct lawsuit against President Clinton, Paula
Jones was warned by her lawyers last August that she was risking
``devastation'' in pursuing a claim that could sully her
reputation, and would ultimately fail and ``snatch defeat from the
jaws of victory.'' By Francis X. Clines.

   CHICAGO-GUN-SUIT (Chicago) _ Mayor Daley of Chicago is preparing
a suit against gun manufacturers, saying they should be held liable
for violence, like tobacco companies for sickness. This comes after
three families file a similar suit against manufacturers in Chicago
and Mayor Rendell's threat to do the same thing in Philadelphia. By
Pam Belluck.

   FINANCIAL

   (Will move in ``f'' news file.)

   ASIA-GLOOM (Hong Kong) _ That the Asian financial crisis is
mutating into the Asian recession is not a surprise, but the depth
of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and the gloom that
suffuses the region have surprised even the pessimists. By Mark
Landler.

   Reefer: GM-STRIKE (Detroit) _ Negotiators for UAW and GM
struggled to head off a strike by workers at a second GM parts
factory in Flint, as the union and the world's largest automaker
began bracing themselves for a protracted struggle. By Keith
Bradsher.
',
			body: '
 AM-PAGE1-CONSIDER-NYT 

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here are the stories New York Times editors are considering for
Page 1, Friday, June 12. The N.Y. Times News Service Night
Supervisor is Pat Ryan (212-556-1927).

   INTERNATIONAL

   (Will move in ``i'' news file.)

   CHINA-CLINTON (Washington) _ Forced by an angry Congress to
justify his coming summit meeting in China, President Clinton on
Thursday described his policy of cooperation with Beijing as
``principled and pragmatic,'' and said he was engaging China on
shared commercial and security issues while not turning a blind eye
to the troubling human rights record. By John M. Broder.

   With: CHINA-CONGRESS

   KOSOVO-NATO (Brussels, Belgium) _ NATO defense ministers called
Thursday for a huge show of force in the air over Albania, with
simulated bombing and strafing raids and mock troop deployments to
give the Yugoslav president a taste of the power that could be
turned against him if he does not stop attacks on the province of
Kosovo. By Craig R. Whitney.

   With: KOSOVO-RUSSIA

   WASHINGTON

   (Will move in ``w'' news file.)

   TOBACCO-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The Senate is expected to vote
on a proposal to limit lawyers' fees in tobacco suits to $1,000 an
hour. By David E. Rosenbaum.

   CAMPAIGN-FINANCE (Washington) _ Campaign finance developments.
By Alison Mitchell.

   NATIONAL-GENERAL

   (Will move in ``a'' news file.)

   CLINTON-JONES (Undated) _ In rejecting a possible settlement of
her sexual misconduct lawsuit against President Clinton, Paula
Jones was warned by her lawyers last August that she was risking
``devastation'' in pursuing a claim that could sully her
reputation, and would ultimately fail and ``snatch defeat from the
jaws of victory.'' By Francis X. Clines.

   CHICAGO-GUN-SUIT (Chicago) _ Mayor Daley of Chicago is preparing
a suit against gun manufacturers, saying they should be held liable
for violence, like tobacco companies for sickness. This comes after
three families file a similar suit against manufacturers in Chicago
and Mayor Rendell's threat to do the same thing in Philadelphia. By
Pam Belluck.

   FINANCIAL

   (Will move in ``f'' news file.)

   ASIA-GLOOM (Hong Kong) _ That the Asian financial crisis is
mutating into the Asian recession is not a surprise, but the depth
of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and the gloom that
suffuses the region have surprised even the pessimists. By Mark
Landler.

   Reefer: GM-STRIKE (Detroit) _ Negotiators for UAW and GM
struggled to head off a strike by workers at a second GM parts
factory in Flint, as the union and the world's largest automaker
began bracing themselves for a protracted struggle. By Keith
Bradsher.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0169 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:29 ',
			header: '
A4955 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TIMING-THEATER-LADN     06-11 0741
',
			slug: ' BC-TIMING-THEATER-LADN ',
			headline: '
`ALL IN THE TIMING' A CLEVER SIX-PACK
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ &UR;  &LR; You order soup and the waitress brings you a
cheese steak. You try to buy the New York Daily News and all you
can find is the Inquirer.

   Obviously, you're trapped in a Philadelphia. Not the big Eastern
city itself, mind you, but an absurdist black hole where everyone
does the exact opposite of what you'd expect, and ``if you want
something, they're not going to have it.''

   Al (Tom McGowan) explains this looking-glass logic to his
anxious friend Mark (Arnie Burton) in ``The Philadelphia,'' one of
the six skits that make up David Ives' ludicrously funny evening of
literate comedy, ``All in the Timing.''

   Whatever state of mind you're in _ a Philadelphia, a Los
Angeles, even a Cleveland _ a trip to the Geffen Playhouse this
month will be the cultural equivalent of a mental-health day.

   If you've seen Ives' work before, you're aware he's an
ambidextrous talent, capable of penning farcical humor with his
right hand while summoning deeper reflections with his left.

   Both those talents come into play in several of these vignettes,
including one in which a kinetic instructor (Burton) offers a
stuttering young woman (Kimberly Williams) lessons in Unamanda,
``da linkwa Looniversahl'' (that's universal language to you).

   Sounding like pidgin Yiddish by way of Dr. Seuss, Unamanda
features such handy phrases as,``Belljar, frau-ling, Harvard U?''
The eager-to-learn pupil proves so adept at mastering this pop
esperanto that, by skit's end, she and her teacher have weathered
an emotional crisis and replaced their nonsense language with the
mutual tongue of romance. Though a hair overlong, it's an
imaginative bit of lunacy.

   ``The Universal Language'' follows ``Words, Words, Words,'' a
lively riff on the old saw that if you sat three chimps down at
typewriters, eventually they'd bang out ``Hamlet.'' Here, the
disgruntled primates Milton (McGowan), Swift (Burton again) and
Kafka (Clea Lewis) are cleverly conceived as having the
personalities of harried Hollywood hack writers, trying to appease
a godlike Columbia University researcher.

   ``Not even a story conference!'' one grumbles between peeling a
banana, swinging on a tire and, finally, tapping out a few lines
that sound suspiciously like ``Paradise Lost.''

   Ives invites us to laugh at the chimps' predicament and, by
analogy, our own. If these baffled apes are mere blips in the
Darwinian cosmos, can humans be much better off? Though Ives'
script is virtually yawn-proof, director John Rando and his
ensemble of five (Jim Fyfe is the other) deserve plenty of credit
for making this undemanding evening pass so pleasurably.

   At their best, the vignettes have the immediacy of improv comedy
with just enough intellectual ballast. Happily, Ives would rather
be funny than erudite, as he demonstrates with his spot-on parody
of a Philip Glass/Robert Wilson opera, complete with cryptic
dialogue, hyper-stylized choreography and bemused performers who
pause to ask the audience, ``Do you understand this? 'Cause we
don't either.''

   Though it would be a mistake to take this stuff too seriously,
you sense a certain profundity lurking behind Ives' facile facade.
``All in the Timing'' buzzes with `what if's?' about the nature of
existence and the crucial role that accidents and serendipity play
in the grand scheme of things.

   Take the concluding skit, ``Variations on the Death of
Trotsky,'' a cerebral piece of vaudeville that employs a version of
the word's oldest sight gag, the arrow-through-the-head routine.

   Ives envisions the great Soviet statesman and his wife (Lewis)
as a sitcom couple: Trotsky, his head impaled with a mountain
climber's ax (not an icepick), is literally at pains to explain why
he's still alive on Aug. 21, 1940 _ thirty-six hours after a
Spanish communist gardener drove the deadly implement into his
skull.

   ``Maybe a hat would cover the handle, you know those cute little
alpine hats?'' Mrs. Trotsky says helpfully.

   The world Ives surveys turns on bizarre coincidences and freak
events _ an assassin's blow, a lover's blurted confession, an
innocent bite of the apple of knowledge. In the end, though, Ives'
Marxian sensibilities are closer to Groucho's than Karl's. He
gooses your mind silly. &UR;
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By REED JOHNSON 
c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ &UR;  &LR; You order soup and the waitress brings you a
cheese steak. You try to buy the New York Daily News and all you
can find is the Inquirer.

   Obviously, you're trapped in a Philadelphia. Not the big Eastern
city itself, mind you, but an absurdist black hole where everyone
does the exact opposite of what you'd expect, and ``if you want
something, they're not going to have it.''

   Al (Tom McGowan) explains this looking-glass logic to his
anxious friend Mark (Arnie Burton) in ``The Philadelphia,'' one of
the six skits that make up David Ives' ludicrously funny evening of
literate comedy, ``All in the Timing.''

   Whatever state of mind you're in _ a Philadelphia, a Los
Angeles, even a Cleveland _ a trip to the Geffen Playhouse this
month will be the cultural equivalent of a mental-health day.

   If you've seen Ives' work before, you're aware he's an
ambidextrous talent, capable of penning farcical humor with his
right hand while summoning deeper reflections with his left.

   Both those talents come into play in several of these vignettes,
including one in which a kinetic instructor (Burton) offers a
stuttering young woman (Kimberly Williams) lessons in Unamanda,
``da linkwa Looniversahl'' (that's universal language to you).

   Sounding like pidgin Yiddish by way of Dr. Seuss, Unamanda
features such handy phrases as,``Belljar, frau-ling, Harvard U?''
The eager-to-learn pupil proves so adept at mastering this pop
esperanto that, by skit's end, she and her teacher have weathered
an emotional crisis and replaced their nonsense language with the
mutual tongue of romance. Though a hair overlong, it's an
imaginative bit of lunacy.

   ``The Universal Language'' follows ``Words, Words, Words,'' a
lively riff on the old saw that if you sat three chimps down at
typewriters, eventually they'd bang out ``Hamlet.'' Here, the
disgruntled primates Milton (McGowan), Swift (Burton again) and
Kafka (Clea Lewis) are cleverly conceived as having the
personalities of harried Hollywood hack writers, trying to appease
a godlike Columbia University researcher.

   ``Not even a story conference!'' one grumbles between peeling a
banana, swinging on a tire and, finally, tapping out a few lines
that sound suspiciously like ``Paradise Lost.''

   Ives invites us to laugh at the chimps' predicament and, by
analogy, our own. If these baffled apes are mere blips in the
Darwinian cosmos, can humans be much better off? Though Ives'
script is virtually yawn-proof, director John Rando and his
ensemble of five (Jim Fyfe is the other) deserve plenty of credit
for making this undemanding evening pass so pleasurably.

   At their best, the vignettes have the immediacy of improv comedy
with just enough intellectual ballast. Happily, Ives would rather
be funny than erudite, as he demonstrates with his spot-on parody
of a Philip Glass/Robert Wilson opera, complete with cryptic
dialogue, hyper-stylized choreography and bemused performers who
pause to ask the audience, ``Do you understand this? 'Cause we
don't either.''

   Though it would be a mistake to take this stuff too seriously,
you sense a certain profundity lurking behind Ives' facile facade.
``All in the Timing'' buzzes with `what if's?' about the nature of
existence and the crucial role that accidents and serendipity play
in the grand scheme of things.

   Take the concluding skit, ``Variations on the Death of
Trotsky,'' a cerebral piece of vaudeville that employs a version of
the word's oldest sight gag, the arrow-through-the-head routine.

   Ives envisions the great Soviet statesman and his wife (Lewis)
as a sitcom couple: Trotsky, his head impaled with a mountain
climber's ax (not an icepick), is literally at pains to explain why
he's still alive on Aug. 21, 1940 _ thirty-six hours after a
Spanish communist gardener drove the deadly implement into his
skull.

   ``Maybe a hat would cover the handle, you know those cute little
alpine hats?'' Mrs. Trotsky says helpfully.

   The world Ives surveys turns on bizarre coincidences and freak
events _ an assassin's blow, a lover's blurted confession, an
innocent bite of the apple of knowledge. In the end, though, Ives'
Marxian sensibilities are closer to Groucho's than Karl's. He
gooses your mind silly. &UR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0170 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:30 ',
			header: '
A4959 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-RENO-JASPER-HNS &LR;      06-11 0582
',
			slug: ' BC-RENO-JASPER-HNS ',
			headline: '
RENO PROMISES FEDERAL PROBE OF POSSIBLE RACIAL KILLING IN TEXAS 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Attorney General Janet Reno said Thursday the
Justice Department will investigate the case of three white men
accused of beating, then dragging a black man to his death in
Jasper, Texas.

   ``This is a terrible tragedy, and we're going to leave no stone
unturned in this investigation,'' Reno told Washington reporters
and a visiting group, the National Federation of Press Women, which
consists of women reporters, editors and publishers around the
country.

   Reno also said U.S. attorney staffers in Texas were consulting
with state prosecutors to determine how the case should proceed.

   State officials have charged the three men with murder for
dragging James Byrd Jr., 49, to death behind a pickup truck on
Sunday near the East Texas town of about 8,000 people. Justice
Department officials are looking at possible federal charges
alleging that the men violated Byrd's civil rights, Reno said.

   The attorney general cautioned the press not to let any anger
over the crime interfere with their duty as reporters and editors
to cover the story fairly.

   ``You cannot repress the outrage that a crime like this evokes
... but the case should be tried in the courts, not the media,''
Reno said.

   Charged in the case are Lawrence R. Brewer, 31, of Sulfur
Springs, Texas, and Shawn A. Berry and John W. King, both 23, of
Jasper. The three are being held without bond in the Jasper County
Jail, and Pat Hardy, Jasper County assistant district attorney,
said in a telephone interview Thursday that local prosecutors are
considering charging the men also with kidnapping. ``We haven't
decided, but we're leaning toward it, he said.

   In Texas, committing murder in the course of a kidnapping or
certain other crimes is a capital offense, requiring the death
penalty.

   Two of the three suspects, King and Brewer, were cellmates in
prison, and their bodies are marked with racist tattoos, which led
police to believe the murder may have been racially motivated.

   The broken body of Byrd was discovered on a country road Sunday
morning by Jasper residents. As Byrd walked home from a niece's
bridal shower several hours earlier, he was apparently picked up by
the men and taken to some woods, where he was beaten, then chained
to the truck and dragged for two miles.

   According to police, items left in the woods and along the dirt
logging road where Byrd was found led officials to the three
suspects. One item was a cigarette lighter inscribed with a Ku Klux
Klan symbol and the word ``Possum,'' a prison nickname of King.
Another item was a torque-wrench set with the name Berry on it.

   Berry told the police in an affidavit that he had been riding
around with the other two men when he saw Byrd walking and offered
him a ride. Byrd and Berry might have known each other because they
had the same parole officer. Byrd had served six years in prison
for theft and violating parole. All three suspects have criminal
records for offenses including burglary and drug possession and
have served jail time together.

   Guy James Gray, the Jasper County district attorney, called the
killing ``probably the most brutal I've ever seen'' in 20 years as
a prosecutor. Byrd's torso was found at the edge of a paved road,
his head and an arm in a ditch about a mile away.
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients.)  
 By MARK HELM  
 c.1998 Hearst Newspapers  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Attorney General Janet Reno said Thursday the
Justice Department will investigate the case of three white men
accused of beating, then dragging a black man to his death in
Jasper, Texas.

   ``This is a terrible tragedy, and we're going to leave no stone
unturned in this investigation,'' Reno told Washington reporters
and a visiting group, the National Federation of Press Women, which
consists of women reporters, editors and publishers around the
country.

   Reno also said U.S. attorney staffers in Texas were consulting
with state prosecutors to determine how the case should proceed.

   State officials have charged the three men with murder for
dragging James Byrd Jr., 49, to death behind a pickup truck on
Sunday near the East Texas town of about 8,000 people. Justice
Department officials are looking at possible federal charges
alleging that the men violated Byrd's civil rights, Reno said.

   The attorney general cautioned the press not to let any anger
over the crime interfere with their duty as reporters and editors
to cover the story fairly.

   ``You cannot repress the outrage that a crime like this evokes
... but the case should be tried in the courts, not the media,''
Reno said.

   Charged in the case are Lawrence R. Brewer, 31, of Sulfur
Springs, Texas, and Shawn A. Berry and John W. King, both 23, of
Jasper. The three are being held without bond in the Jasper County
Jail, and Pat Hardy, Jasper County assistant district attorney,
said in a telephone interview Thursday that local prosecutors are
considering charging the men also with kidnapping. ``We haven't
decided, but we're leaning toward it, he said.

   In Texas, committing murder in the course of a kidnapping or
certain other crimes is a capital offense, requiring the death
penalty.

   Two of the three suspects, King and Brewer, were cellmates in
prison, and their bodies are marked with racist tattoos, which led
police to believe the murder may have been racially motivated.

   The broken body of Byrd was discovered on a country road Sunday
morning by Jasper residents. As Byrd walked home from a niece's
bridal shower several hours earlier, he was apparently picked up by
the men and taken to some woods, where he was beaten, then chained
to the truck and dragged for two miles.

   According to police, items left in the woods and along the dirt
logging road where Byrd was found led officials to the three
suspects. One item was a cigarette lighter inscribed with a Ku Klux
Klan symbol and the word ``Possum,'' a prison nickname of King.
Another item was a torque-wrench set with the name Berry on it.

   Berry told the police in an affidavit that he had been riding
around with the other two men when he saw Byrd walking and offered
him a ride. Byrd and Berry might have known each other because they
had the same parole officer. Byrd had served six years in prison
for theft and violating parole. All three suspects have criminal
records for offenses including burglary and drug possession and
have served jail time together.

   Guy James Gray, the Jasper County district attorney, called the
killing ``probably the most brutal I've ever seen'' in 20 years as
a prosecutor. Byrd's torso was found at the edge of a paved road,
his head and an arm in a ditch about a mile away.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0171 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:35 ',
			header: '
A4973 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CHILDCARE-COLUMN-BOS &LR;      06-11 1333
',
			slug: ' BC-CHILDCARE-COLUMN-BOS ',
			headline: '
IT'S NORMAL FOR BABIES TO CRY, BUT THERE ARE THINGS YOU CAN DO
',
			trailer: '
   As grateful as she is to have her 7-month-old daughter, Ally, in
her life, Toni Lansbury of Brookline also admits to wondering what
she was thinking when she wanted a second child. Jake, 3 1/2, was
the kind of baby who rarely cried; when he did, he was easily
comforted. Ally has been the exact opposite.

   Everybody knows babies cry, but it can take parents by surprise
to see how much they can cry, how intense the crying can be, how
inconsolable they can be, and how awful the crying can make the
adults feel.

   Blessedly, Ally turned a corner about three weeks ago. Toni is
ecstatic. ``She's a different child. Days go by now without a
crying jag and when she does cry, I can figure out what she needs
and comfort her,'' she says.

   For nearly six months, that wasn't the case. ``What was
maddening was the unpredictability,'' says Lansbury. ``I couldn't
figure out why she cried or how to make it stop. She could do four
hours of crying throughout the day. It made it hard to bond with
her, hard not to feel terrible. I got to the point where I tried
not to be alone with her.''

   Technically at least, Ally's crying wasn't even what
pediatricians consider ``excessive.'' It's normal for a baby to cry
2 1/2 to four hours a day, particularly at 6 to 8 weeks when crying
peaks before it tapers off at about 12 weeks.

   That's small comfort to parents like Lansbury and her husband,
Peter. Psychologist and baby author Penelope Leach is sympathetic.
``Sure, it's reassuring to know your baby is within the normal
range; it makes it a little less scary. But it's horrible to live
through nonetheless,'' she says. ``You feel helpless. Like you're a
lousy parent. Like your baby hates you. Like nothing you can do
makes any difference.''

   Less than fully organized digestive or nervous systems are the
two most common reasons some babies cry more than others. For them,
eating hurts and so does being stimulated, sometimes even just the
slightest bit. ``Even your efforts to comfort are too much,'' says
child psychiatrist Arnold Kerzner, founder of the Boston Institute
for the Development of Infants and Parents.

   But a baby's crying is not always a bad thing.

   Kerzner says that one of the emotions babies are born with is
protestation: ```I'm not sure what's going on but I'm out of sync
and I don't like it!''' Sometimes, he tells parents, we just have
to respect a baby's right to make those feelings known and accept
that we can't always do anything about it.

   Indeed, sometimes the crying itself can make her feel better,
says Brown University psychologist Zack Boukydis, who researches
infant crying at Women &AMP; Infants' Hospital in Providence.

   ``Crying is adaptive behavior,'' he says. ``It's how a baby
discharges stress and gets back in balance. You know how adults can
have a good cry and feel better? So can babies.''

   Normal or not, healthy or not, never just let a baby cry without
holding him for a burp, seeing if he's hungry, checking the diaper,
feeling for a fever. There's one more item Kerzner adds to the
list. ``Babies have two hunger impulses,'' he says, ``one for food,
one for socialization. If they're lacking in the latter, they'll
cry as much for it as they will for food.''

   Cambridge pediatrician Michael Yogman, a respected infant
specialist and the Lansburys' pediatrician, says that even with an
excessive crier it's important to always run down the list. Sooner
or later, a need will be real and you'll be able to help.

   Even when you don't feel as if you are doing anything
constructive, you probably are, says Leach, whose newest book is
``Your Baby &AMP; Child, from Birth to Age 5'' (Knopf).

   ``Even if you can't comfort her into being cheerful or asleep,
even if all you do is break the hard crying so there's a gap in the
crying, that makes a difference,'' she says. ``It's important for
parents to know that.''

   Parents who are unable to console their infant should call their
pediatrician no matter how embarrassed or inadequate they feel,
says Boukydis. Milk allergies and medical problems such as reflux,
a digestive difficulty, need to be ruled out. (A clue to reflux is
that the baby begins to cry during feeding or spits up or hiccups a
lot afterward. In babies 8 weeks or older, reflux crying can begin
before feeding. They cry because they're hungry but also because
they anticipate the pain eating will bring.)

   If medical problems are ruled out and painful, intense crying
persists, the problem may be colic. Pediatricians and researchers
still aren't sure what causes colic, but they know what it looks
like: The baby's stomach is tight, hands are in a fist, back is
arched, face red, feet cold, knees drawn to the tummy. The colic
cry has a higher pitch and a more urgent, piercing, and irregular
sound than other cries.

   Whether a baby shows signs of colic, it's heart-wrenching to
think your baby is in pain. Combine that worry with your inability
to soothe him, with your exhaustion &UR;  &LR; and, for a mother, with
fluctuating hormones, and it's easy to see why parents get into a
negative cycle of confusion and self-blame.

   For Lansbury, it was that and more. She remembers thinking,
``What if this is her personality? What if she's going to be
someone you can never make happy?'' The crying even got to Jake who
would often put his hands over his ears and ask, ``Mommy, what's
wrong with her?''

   The good thing about Ally's crying was that it was during the
day. By 7 p.m., she was usually asleep (a good indication this
wasn't colic, which usually starts about then), so that Toni and
Peter, who took time off from work to help, could sleep.
Nonetheless, Toni became frightened. ``I felt like I was surfing
the edge of insanity,'' she says. ``I went from thinking, `What's
wrong with this baby?' to, `What's wrong with me?'''

   These are the thoughts professionals work hard to dispel.

   ``In the 1950s and '60s, there was a lot of blaming of
mothers,'' says Boukydis. ``Now we know that a baby comes with a
temperament and certain things going on inside her body.''

   The message he gives parents, and especially mothers, is simple:
``Give yourself a break.'' He means it literally.

   ``Mothers often feel they're the only one who can help the
baby,'' Boukydis says. ``If you don't have a partner, find an adult
who can spell you, even for 10 minutes.''

   Yogman tells parents to put the baby in a front-pack and take a
long walk, even in winter. ``Crying is harder to listen to when
it's bouncing off the walls in a house,'' he says.

   Leach says what mothers need most is someone to mother them. ``A
cup of hot tea and sympathy, someone to draw a bath _ that goes a
long way,'' she says.

   What the baby needs are parents who continue to run through
their checklist, thus sending a message that says, ``We're here for
you, we're taking care of you, we won't let you down.'' In the
first six months of life, says Yogman, ``there's nothing
manipulative about the crying. You cannot spoil this baby by
picking him up and being responsive.''

   Beginning at about 3 months, however, there's another message
you can send: ``Baby, you have some capacity to calm yourself.''
Giving him his thumb, fist, finger, or pacifier will make a big
difference immediately as well as later on: A baby who can find his
thumb will be better able to get back to sleep in the middle of the
night at any age.

   Boukydis says about 30 to 40 percent of babies who cry
excessively continue to have crying and sleep problems as toddlers,
but 60 to 70 percent grow out of this stage without any lasting
effects.

   That appears to be what's happened to Ally Lansbury, who is now
a happy, laughing, gurgly baby. ``I think she just got more
comfortable in her skin,'' is the way her mom puts it.
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By BARBARA F. MELTZ  
 c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   As grateful as she is to have her 7-month-old daughter, Ally, in
her life, Toni Lansbury of Brookline also admits to wondering what
she was thinking when she wanted a second child. Jake, 3 1/2, was
the kind of baby who rarely cried; when he did, he was easily
comforted. Ally has been the exact opposite.

   Everybody knows babies cry, but it can take parents by surprise
to see how much they can cry, how intense the crying can be, how
inconsolable they can be, and how awful the crying can make the
adults feel.

   Blessedly, Ally turned a corner about three weeks ago. Toni is
ecstatic. ``She's a different child. Days go by now without a
crying jag and when she does cry, I can figure out what she needs
and comfort her,'' she says.

   For nearly six months, that wasn't the case. ``What was
maddening was the unpredictability,'' says Lansbury. ``I couldn't
figure out why she cried or how to make it stop. She could do four
hours of crying throughout the day. It made it hard to bond with
her, hard not to feel terrible. I got to the point where I tried
not to be alone with her.''

   Technically at least, Ally's crying wasn't even what
pediatricians consider ``excessive.'' It's normal for a baby to cry
2 1/2 to four hours a day, particularly at 6 to 8 weeks when crying
peaks before it tapers off at about 12 weeks.

   That's small comfort to parents like Lansbury and her husband,
Peter. Psychologist and baby author Penelope Leach is sympathetic.
``Sure, it's reassuring to know your baby is within the normal
range; it makes it a little less scary. But it's horrible to live
through nonetheless,'' she says. ``You feel helpless. Like you're a
lousy parent. Like your baby hates you. Like nothing you can do
makes any difference.''

   Less than fully organized digestive or nervous systems are the
two most common reasons some babies cry more than others. For them,
eating hurts and so does being stimulated, sometimes even just the
slightest bit. ``Even your efforts to comfort are too much,'' says
child psychiatrist Arnold Kerzner, founder of the Boston Institute
for the Development of Infants and Parents.

   But a baby's crying is not always a bad thing.

   Kerzner says that one of the emotions babies are born with is
protestation: ```I'm not sure what's going on but I'm out of sync
and I don't like it!''' Sometimes, he tells parents, we just have
to respect a baby's right to make those feelings known and accept
that we can't always do anything about it.

   Indeed, sometimes the crying itself can make her feel better,
says Brown University psychologist Zack Boukydis, who researches
infant crying at Women &AMP; Infants' Hospital in Providence.

   ``Crying is adaptive behavior,'' he says. ``It's how a baby
discharges stress and gets back in balance. You know how adults can
have a good cry and feel better? So can babies.''

   Normal or not, healthy or not, never just let a baby cry without
holding him for a burp, seeing if he's hungry, checking the diaper,
feeling for a fever. There's one more item Kerzner adds to the
list. ``Babies have two hunger impulses,'' he says, ``one for food,
one for socialization. If they're lacking in the latter, they'll
cry as much for it as they will for food.''

   Cambridge pediatrician Michael Yogman, a respected infant
specialist and the Lansburys' pediatrician, says that even with an
excessive crier it's important to always run down the list. Sooner
or later, a need will be real and you'll be able to help.

   Even when you don't feel as if you are doing anything
constructive, you probably are, says Leach, whose newest book is
``Your Baby &AMP; Child, from Birth to Age 5'' (Knopf).

   ``Even if you can't comfort her into being cheerful or asleep,
even if all you do is break the hard crying so there's a gap in the
crying, that makes a difference,'' she says. ``It's important for
parents to know that.''

   Parents who are unable to console their infant should call their
pediatrician no matter how embarrassed or inadequate they feel,
says Boukydis. Milk allergies and medical problems such as reflux,
a digestive difficulty, need to be ruled out. (A clue to reflux is
that the baby begins to cry during feeding or spits up or hiccups a
lot afterward. In babies 8 weeks or older, reflux crying can begin
before feeding. They cry because they're hungry but also because
they anticipate the pain eating will bring.)

   If medical problems are ruled out and painful, intense crying
persists, the problem may be colic. Pediatricians and researchers
still aren't sure what causes colic, but they know what it looks
like: The baby's stomach is tight, hands are in a fist, back is
arched, face red, feet cold, knees drawn to the tummy. The colic
cry has a higher pitch and a more urgent, piercing, and irregular
sound than other cries.

   Whether a baby shows signs of colic, it's heart-wrenching to
think your baby is in pain. Combine that worry with your inability
to soothe him, with your exhaustion &UR;  &LR; and, for a mother, with
fluctuating hormones, and it's easy to see why parents get into a
negative cycle of confusion and self-blame.

   For Lansbury, it was that and more. She remembers thinking,
``What if this is her personality? What if she's going to be
someone you can never make happy?'' The crying even got to Jake who
would often put his hands over his ears and ask, ``Mommy, what's
wrong with her?''

   The good thing about Ally's crying was that it was during the
day. By 7 p.m., she was usually asleep (a good indication this
wasn't colic, which usually starts about then), so that Toni and
Peter, who took time off from work to help, could sleep.
Nonetheless, Toni became frightened. ``I felt like I was surfing
the edge of insanity,'' she says. ``I went from thinking, `What's
wrong with this baby?' to, `What's wrong with me?'''

   These are the thoughts professionals work hard to dispel.

   ``In the 1950s and '60s, there was a lot of blaming of
mothers,'' says Boukydis. ``Now we know that a baby comes with a
temperament and certain things going on inside her body.''

   The message he gives parents, and especially mothers, is simple:
``Give yourself a break.'' He means it literally.

   ``Mothers often feel they're the only one who can help the
baby,'' Boukydis says. ``If you don't have a partner, find an adult
who can spell you, even for 10 minutes.''

   Yogman tells parents to put the baby in a front-pack and take a
long walk, even in winter. ``Crying is harder to listen to when
it's bouncing off the walls in a house,'' he says.

   Leach says what mothers need most is someone to mother them. ``A
cup of hot tea and sympathy, someone to draw a bath _ that goes a
long way,'' she says.

   What the baby needs are parents who continue to run through
their checklist, thus sending a message that says, ``We're here for
you, we're taking care of you, we won't let you down.'' In the
first six months of life, says Yogman, ``there's nothing
manipulative about the crying. You cannot spoil this baby by
picking him up and being responsive.''

   Beginning at about 3 months, however, there's another message
you can send: ``Baby, you have some capacity to calm yourself.''
Giving him his thumb, fist, finger, or pacifier will make a big
difference immediately as well as later on: A baby who can find his
thumb will be better able to get back to sleep in the middle of the
night at any age.

   Boukydis says about 30 to 40 percent of babies who cry
excessively continue to have crying and sleep problems as toddlers,
but 60 to 70 percent grow out of this stage without any lasting
effects.

   That appears to be what's happened to Ally Lansbury, who is now
a happy, laughing, gurgly baby. ``I think she just got more
comfortable in her skin,'' is the way her mom puts it.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0172 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:35 ',
			header: '
A4976 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-     06-11 1070
',
			slug: ' BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-NYT ',
			headline: '
IN THE TWILIGHT OF AN UNFULFILLED CAREER, WEGERLE SEEKS WORLD CUP
GLORY  
 (JT )
',
			trailer: '
   SAINT-JEAN ARDIERES, France _ The World Cup once seemed to Roy
Wegerle a brass ring that he would never grasp. He grew up in
Pretoria, the capital of South Africa, whose racial policies of
apartheid made it an international pariah and left it banned from
the Olympics and other major sports competitions.

   Inside South Africa, sport, like every other facet of society,
was played out along racial lines. Soccer was the preferred game of
the black majority, while rugby was favored by the white minority.
Still, from the age of 10, Wegerle was determined to become a
professional soccer player. It was a desire made more urgent at age
16 or 17, when he made his first trip to play against a team in one
of the black townships.

   ``There was a creativity and flair that I hadn't seen before,''
Wegerle said. ``It changed my whole thinking about what it was
possible to do with the ball.''

   And it also intensified the feeling that if he wanted to play
internationally, he would have to leave South Africa. His one way
out was to come to the United States in 1982 as a college student
at South Florida University. From there, Wegerle began a sinuous
career that has carried both extraordinary promise and maddening
unfulfillment due to the vagaries of injury.

   He has been rookie of the year with Tampa Bay in the defunct
North American Soccer League. He has played 10 successful seasons
in England. He took advantage of soccer's murky eligibility
requirements, and given the choice of playing for five national
teams, he chose the United States, gaining eligibility in 1991
because he was married to an American. He has also endured nine
knee surgeries, which limited him to a reserve role in the 1994
World Cup and which threatened to end his career a year ago. The
scars crisscross his knees like a roadmap of his interrupted
career.

   But now, at 34, he has worked himself into remarkable shape and
has became a serious candidate to start as the lone forward for the
Americans in the 1998 World Cup in France, challenging Eric Wynalda
and Brian McBride up front in Coach Steve Sampson's encouraging
3-6-1 alignment against Germany on Monday in Paris.

   Sampson still has not made up his mind. Does he use Wegerle, who
gives him 90 minutes of steadiness and the ability to hold the ball
while the midfield comes forward? Does he choose McBride, who gets
his head on the ball better than the other two? Or does he choose
Wynalda, recovering from arthroscopic knee surgery two months ago,
who may not always work hard but who can give Sampson five minutes
of brilliance that can decide a game?

   ``My most important job is to hold the ball and bring the
midfield into the game,'' Wegerle said. ``Then it's my job to get
into scoring position. It requires a lot more effort with one
forward. There's twice the workload and half the help.''

   Coincidentally, South Africa is also making its first appearance
in soccer's world championship. The team is affectionately known as
``Bafana Bafana,'' which translates to ``The Boys,'' and which is a
sharp counterpoint to the Springboks, the national team mascot
associated with the former apartheid regime. If he had remained in
South Africa, Wegerle might very well be playing for Bafana Bafana,
but he prefers to look forward, not backward.

   ``I don't have any regrets,'' Wegerle said. ``I made my choice
in '92 to follow my World Cup dream. South Africa had been banned
my whole career. This was something I needed to do. I'm very
fortunate to have this opportunity. It has always been my dream,
but when I was in South Africa, it wasn't available. It wasn't a
realistic dream, only a fantasy.''

   The United States and South Africa have been placed in different
groups in the 32-team World Cup. There is only a remote chance that
the two teams would meet. Wegerle knows few players among the
Bafana Bafana, but he wishes them the best of luck. They deserve to
succeed, he said, given that sport has provided some of the most
symbolic and visible racial healing in post-apartheid South Africa.

   South Africa made its figurative re-entry into the world by
marching into the opening ceremony of the 1992 Summer Olympics in
Barcelona, Spain, after an absence of nearly three decades. In
1995, South Africa won the world rugby championship, and President
Nelson Mandela made an important, inclusive gesture, donning the
jersey of the Springboks, the once reviled athletic symbol of
apartheid. A year later, Bafana Bafana won the African Nations Cup.

   ``I'm convinced that sport, soccer in particular, was the
breakthrough against apartheid,'' Wegerle said. ``I hope the guys
have great success and can smile after the World Cup. It's the
least they deserve after everything they've been through.''

   His own career has been similarly rejuvenated from injury. After
nine knee surgeries, his forward speed is still evident, but he
lacks the sharp cutting ability he once had. Sampson would like to
see Wegerle be able to beat defenders one-on-one with explosive
power and to be able to shoot from distance with strength and
accuracy. But he provides vast experience and determination, an
ability to play with his back to the goal and to hold the ball
under pressure.

   ``A year ago, I thought his international career was over,''
Sampson said. ``He deserves a lot of credit for having proved
himself again.''

   Wegerle provided two goals in a 3-0 victory over Canada last
November that secured the United States a position in the 1998
World Cup and also secured Sampson's job. In the weeks before World
Cup training began in early May, Wegerle hired a personal trainer
to keep him fit, and he reported to camp in the best shape of
anyone on the team.

   ``It's been disappointing that I haven't had the opportunity to
show my full talent on the world stage,'' Wegerle said. ``It was my
main fear that I would go out with a whimper. But I was determined
not to go out like that. That's what kept me going.''

   And what about the improbable chance of playing South Africa in
the World Cup?

   ``A lot of people have asked me that, and I think it would be a
great way to finish my career,'' Wegerle said. Then he paused. ``As
long as the U.S. won, of course.''

   &QL;
',
			body: '


   By JERE LONGMAN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   SAINT-JEAN ARDIERES, France _ The World Cup once seemed to Roy
Wegerle a brass ring that he would never grasp. He grew up in
Pretoria, the capital of South Africa, whose racial policies of
apartheid made it an international pariah and left it banned from
the Olympics and other major sports competitions.

   Inside South Africa, sport, like every other facet of society,
was played out along racial lines. Soccer was the preferred game of
the black majority, while rugby was favored by the white minority.
Still, from the age of 10, Wegerle was determined to become a
professional soccer player. It was a desire made more urgent at age
16 or 17, when he made his first trip to play against a team in one
of the black townships.

   ``There was a creativity and flair that I hadn't seen before,''
Wegerle said. ``It changed my whole thinking about what it was
possible to do with the ball.''

   And it also intensified the feeling that if he wanted to play
internationally, he would have to leave South Africa. His one way
out was to come to the United States in 1982 as a college student
at South Florida University. From there, Wegerle began a sinuous
career that has carried both extraordinary promise and maddening
unfulfillment due to the vagaries of injury.

   He has been rookie of the year with Tampa Bay in the defunct
North American Soccer League. He has played 10 successful seasons
in England. He took advantage of soccer's murky eligibility
requirements, and given the choice of playing for five national
teams, he chose the United States, gaining eligibility in 1991
because he was married to an American. He has also endured nine
knee surgeries, which limited him to a reserve role in the 1994
World Cup and which threatened to end his career a year ago. The
scars crisscross his knees like a roadmap of his interrupted
career.

   But now, at 34, he has worked himself into remarkable shape and
has became a serious candidate to start as the lone forward for the
Americans in the 1998 World Cup in France, challenging Eric Wynalda
and Brian McBride up front in Coach Steve Sampson's encouraging
3-6-1 alignment against Germany on Monday in Paris.

   Sampson still has not made up his mind. Does he use Wegerle, who
gives him 90 minutes of steadiness and the ability to hold the ball
while the midfield comes forward? Does he choose McBride, who gets
his head on the ball better than the other two? Or does he choose
Wynalda, recovering from arthroscopic knee surgery two months ago,
who may not always work hard but who can give Sampson five minutes
of brilliance that can decide a game?

   ``My most important job is to hold the ball and bring the
midfield into the game,'' Wegerle said. ``Then it's my job to get
into scoring position. It requires a lot more effort with one
forward. There's twice the workload and half the help.''

   Coincidentally, South Africa is also making its first appearance
in soccer's world championship. The team is affectionately known as
``Bafana Bafana,'' which translates to ``The Boys,'' and which is a
sharp counterpoint to the Springboks, the national team mascot
associated with the former apartheid regime. If he had remained in
South Africa, Wegerle might very well be playing for Bafana Bafana,
but he prefers to look forward, not backward.

   ``I don't have any regrets,'' Wegerle said. ``I made my choice
in '92 to follow my World Cup dream. South Africa had been banned
my whole career. This was something I needed to do. I'm very
fortunate to have this opportunity. It has always been my dream,
but when I was in South Africa, it wasn't available. It wasn't a
realistic dream, only a fantasy.''

   The United States and South Africa have been placed in different
groups in the 32-team World Cup. There is only a remote chance that
the two teams would meet. Wegerle knows few players among the
Bafana Bafana, but he wishes them the best of luck. They deserve to
succeed, he said, given that sport has provided some of the most
symbolic and visible racial healing in post-apartheid South Africa.

   South Africa made its figurative re-entry into the world by
marching into the opening ceremony of the 1992 Summer Olympics in
Barcelona, Spain, after an absence of nearly three decades. In
1995, South Africa won the world rugby championship, and President
Nelson Mandela made an important, inclusive gesture, donning the
jersey of the Springboks, the once reviled athletic symbol of
apartheid. A year later, Bafana Bafana won the African Nations Cup.

   ``I'm convinced that sport, soccer in particular, was the
breakthrough against apartheid,'' Wegerle said. ``I hope the guys
have great success and can smile after the World Cup. It's the
least they deserve after everything they've been through.''

   His own career has been similarly rejuvenated from injury. After
nine knee surgeries, his forward speed is still evident, but he
lacks the sharp cutting ability he once had. Sampson would like to
see Wegerle be able to beat defenders one-on-one with explosive
power and to be able to shoot from distance with strength and
accuracy. But he provides vast experience and determination, an
ability to play with his back to the goal and to hold the ball
under pressure.

   ``A year ago, I thought his international career was over,''
Sampson said. ``He deserves a lot of credit for having proved
himself again.''

   Wegerle provided two goals in a 3-0 victory over Canada last
November that secured the United States a position in the 1998
World Cup and also secured Sampson's job. In the weeks before World
Cup training began in early May, Wegerle hired a personal trainer
to keep him fit, and he reported to camp in the best shape of
anyone on the team.

   ``It's been disappointing that I haven't had the opportunity to
show my full talent on the world stage,'' Wegerle said. ``It was my
main fear that I would go out with a whimper. But I was determined
not to go out like that. That's what kept me going.''

   And what about the improbable chance of playing South Africa in
the World Cup?

   ``A lot of people have asked me that, and I think it would be a
great way to finish my career,'' Wegerle said. Then he paused. ``As
long as the U.S. won, of course.''

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0173 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:37 ',
			header: '
A4987 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-WAIT-FILM-REVIEW-NYT &LR;      06-11 0605
',
			slug: ' BC-WAIT-FILM-REVIEW-NYT ',
			headline: '
`CAN'T HARDLY WAIT': PAT BUT ENTERTAINING TEEN-AGE COMEDY 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Flip through any yearbook, and you'll find the stock
characters who amusingly populate the teen-age comedy ``Can't
Hardly Wait.'' Set amid a night of wild partying in honor of high
school graduation, it features the smug jock, the prom queen, the
nerdy valedictorian who belongs to the Dead Romance Languages Club,
the acerbic lonely girl a la Molly Ringwald and the ridiculous
hipster, a white guy who won't face the fact that he's no homeboy.

   Some of the equally generic minor characters are listed as Girl
Whose Party It Is (she screams at regular intervals), Reddi Whip
Kid and Girl Mike Hits On No. 2.

   So originality is not the strong suit of ``Can't Hardly Wait,''
which was written and directed by Harry Elfont and Deborah Kaplan.
But these two, whose earlier writing credits include ``A Very Brady
Sequel,'' ``Homeward Bound 2'' and ``Jingle All the Way,'' do show
easygoing humor and the wisdom to borrow well. Their film at
various times recalls tenderhearted coming-of-age comedies from
``American Graffiti'' onward, with strong homage to the works of
Cameron Crowe, Amy Heckerling and John Hughes. It also cites as
many pop cultural reference points as possible, from ``The
X-Files'' to Darth Vader to Tupac Shakur to the ponytails of Baby
Spice.

   Supposed shock waves over the breakup of the hot couple Mike
(Peter Facinelli) and Amanda (Jennifer Love Hewitt), who has been
more believably cast than she is as the glamour queen of fictitious
Huntington Hills High School, are enough to set the story in
motion. The nice guy, Preston (Ethan Embry), has had a four-year
unrequited crush on Amanda and hopes to catch her eye.

   The down-to-earth Denise (Lauren Ambrose), Preston's redheaded
best friend, is ready to coach him through this, until she runs
afoul of hilarious little Kenny (Seth Green), a.k.a. Special K.
Green is great fun as the story's white jive king turned unexpected
Romeo. In a film that deploys a racially mixed cast with particular
ease, one of Kenny's white pals wears a bicycle chain for a
necklace and affects ghetto talk until it gets him what he
deserves.

   The film benefits greatly from wall-to-wall catchy music (even
Barry Manilow's ``Mandy'' falls into that category). Other standout
players include Charlie Korsmo, as the smart kid whose science
project was a working rain forest and who blossoms from dweeb into
rock star on party night, and Jenna Elfman, of television's
``Dharma and Greg,'' who makes a brief, dreamy appearance as an
extremely ersatz angel.

   Jerry O'Connell plays the former high school hero who limps home
to tell Mike (who looks enough like the younger Tom Cruise to fit
here perfectly) that the party really is almost over. At college,
he reports glumly, female classmates don't automatically swoon for
football heroes. They have the nerve to think about world affairs
and go out with older guys.

   &UR; ``Can't Hardly Wait'':  &LR;  Written and directed by Harry Elfont and
Deborah Kaplan; director of photography, Lloyd Ahern; edited by
Michael Jablow; music by David Kitay and Matthew Sweet; production
designer, Marcia Hinds-Johnson; produced by Jenno Topping and Betty
Thomas; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 95 minutes.
This film is rated PG-13.

   With: Jennifer Love Hewitt (Amanda), Ethan Embry (Preston),
Charlie Korsmo (William), Lauren Ambrose (Denise), Peter Facinelli
(Mike), Seth Green (Kenny), Jerry O'Connell, (Trip McNeely) and
Jenna Elfman (Angel). &QL;
',
			body: '


  (ja) 
 By JANET MASLIN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Flip through any yearbook, and you'll find the stock
characters who amusingly populate the teen-age comedy ``Can't
Hardly Wait.'' Set amid a night of wild partying in honor of high
school graduation, it features the smug jock, the prom queen, the
nerdy valedictorian who belongs to the Dead Romance Languages Club,
the acerbic lonely girl a la Molly Ringwald and the ridiculous
hipster, a white guy who won't face the fact that he's no homeboy.

   Some of the equally generic minor characters are listed as Girl
Whose Party It Is (she screams at regular intervals), Reddi Whip
Kid and Girl Mike Hits On No. 2.

   So originality is not the strong suit of ``Can't Hardly Wait,''
which was written and directed by Harry Elfont and Deborah Kaplan.
But these two, whose earlier writing credits include ``A Very Brady
Sequel,'' ``Homeward Bound 2'' and ``Jingle All the Way,'' do show
easygoing humor and the wisdom to borrow well. Their film at
various times recalls tenderhearted coming-of-age comedies from
``American Graffiti'' onward, with strong homage to the works of
Cameron Crowe, Amy Heckerling and John Hughes. It also cites as
many pop cultural reference points as possible, from ``The
X-Files'' to Darth Vader to Tupac Shakur to the ponytails of Baby
Spice.

   Supposed shock waves over the breakup of the hot couple Mike
(Peter Facinelli) and Amanda (Jennifer Love Hewitt), who has been
more believably cast than she is as the glamour queen of fictitious
Huntington Hills High School, are enough to set the story in
motion. The nice guy, Preston (Ethan Embry), has had a four-year
unrequited crush on Amanda and hopes to catch her eye.

   The down-to-earth Denise (Lauren Ambrose), Preston's redheaded
best friend, is ready to coach him through this, until she runs
afoul of hilarious little Kenny (Seth Green), a.k.a. Special K.
Green is great fun as the story's white jive king turned unexpected
Romeo. In a film that deploys a racially mixed cast with particular
ease, one of Kenny's white pals wears a bicycle chain for a
necklace and affects ghetto talk until it gets him what he
deserves.

   The film benefits greatly from wall-to-wall catchy music (even
Barry Manilow's ``Mandy'' falls into that category). Other standout
players include Charlie Korsmo, as the smart kid whose science
project was a working rain forest and who blossoms from dweeb into
rock star on party night, and Jenna Elfman, of television's
``Dharma and Greg,'' who makes a brief, dreamy appearance as an
extremely ersatz angel.

   Jerry O'Connell plays the former high school hero who limps home
to tell Mike (who looks enough like the younger Tom Cruise to fit
here perfectly) that the party really is almost over. At college,
he reports glumly, female classmates don't automatically swoon for
football heroes. They have the nerve to think about world affairs
and go out with older guys.

   &UR; ``Can't Hardly Wait'':  &LR;  Written and directed by Harry Elfont and
Deborah Kaplan; director of photography, Lloyd Ahern; edited by
Michael Jablow; music by David Kitay and Matthew Sweet; production
designer, Marcia Hinds-Johnson; produced by Jenno Topping and Betty
Thomas; released by Columbia Pictures. Running time: 95 minutes.
This film is rated PG-13.

   With: Jennifer Love Hewitt (Amanda), Ethan Embry (Preston),
Charlie Korsmo (William), Lauren Ambrose (Denise), Peter Facinelli
(Mike), Seth Green (Kenny), Jerry O'Connell, (Trip McNeely) and
Jenna Elfman (Angel). &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0174 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:43 ',
			header: '
A4994 &Cx1f; ttx-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TEST-TEX     06-11 0013
',
			slug: ' BC-TEST-TEX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   EDITORS:

   This is a test from the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   EDITORS:

   This is a test from the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0175 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:46 ',
			header: '
A4999 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HULLBALOO-BOOK-REVIEW     06-11 0870
',
			slug: ' BC-HULLBALOO-BOOK-REVIEW-NYT ',
			headline: '
`HULLABALOO IN THE GUAVA ORCHARD': CELEBRITY FRENZY IN A SLEEPY
VILLAGE
',
			trailer: '
   Although the publishers of ``Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard''
have been comparing the book to Arundhati Roy's award-winning novel
``God of Small Things,'' 27-year old Kiran Desai turns out to have
less in common with Ms. Roy or Salman Rushdie than with an older
generation of Indian writers, including her mother, Anita Desai,
and R.K. Narayan.

   There are no grand, mythic visions at work in ``Hullabaloo,'' no
ambitious displays of magical realism. Rather, the novel stands as
a meticulously crafted piece of gently comic satire _ a small,
finely tuned fable that attests to the author's pitch-perfect ear
for character and mood, and her natural storytelling gifts.

   As Narayan has done in his well-known Malgudi stories, Ms. Desai
has conjured up a small Indian town, poised midway between
tradition and modernity, and focused on the life of one of that
town's anonymous inhabitants _ a dreamy, introspective fellow torn
between his familial obligations and his own desire to be left
alone.

   In the case of ``Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard,'' this dreamer
is a slovenly young man named Sampath Chawla, who was born in the
town of Shahkot during a historic monsoon that ended months of
drought. For years, Sampath has done nothing to live up to the
expectations wrought by his auspicious birth: he has sleepwalked
through school, daydreamed through work. Since getting a job at the
local post office, he has spent most of his free time reading other
people's mail and musing about their lives.

   Although Sampath causes his go-getter father endless grief, his
grandmother prophesies great things: ``But the world is round,''
she declares. ``Wait and see! Even if it appears he is going
downhill, he will come up out on the other side. Yes, on top of the
world. He is just taking the longer route.''

   Because ``Hullabaloo'' is the kind of fable where prophecies
always come true, Sampath's grandmother is quickly proven correct.
Not long after Sampath runs away from home and takes up residence
in a guava tree with a band of monkeys, he is being acclaimed as
the hermit of Shahkot, a visionary blessed with ``an unusual
spiritual nature.'' His furtive reading of other people's mail has
endowed him with what seems like the power of second sight, just as
his simple-minded love of adages promotes a reputation for
``unfathomable wisdom.''

   If Sampath's incongruous enshrinement as a wise man plays off
the hallowed Indian tradition of spiritual enlightenment, the
events that accompany his newly discovered holiness read like an
out-and-out sendup of the Western cult of celebrity.

   Sampath's ambitious father is soon gussying up his son's orchard
bower (trying hard to keep a balance ``between the look of
abstemiousness and actual comfort'') and concocting a host of
moneymaking schemes designed to capitalize on his son's newfound
fame. Soon, buses and rickshaws are bringing tourists to visit
``the famous Baba in his treetop hermitage,'' and making Sampath's
family rich.

   All is not well, however. Sampath's monkey companions have
developed a taste for liquor and become a growing public nuisance.
Worse, a spy for the local Atheist Society has vowed to expose
Sampath as a fraud. ``It was precisely people like Sampath who
obstructed the progress of this nation, keeping honest, educated
people like him in the backwaters along with them,'' the spy
thinks. ``They ate away at these striving, intelligent souls, they
ate away at progress and smothered anybody who tried to make a
stand against the vast uneducated hordes, swelling and growing
toward the biggest population of idiots in the world.''

   Ms. Desai does a clever, dexterous job of orchestrating these
events, and in doing so introduces a sprawling cast of characters
rendered in bright folk-art colors. There's Sampath's immediate
family, of course: his hustling, status-conscious father; his
eccentric, ditsy mother and his pushy, man-handling sister. And
then there are the town officials, charged with containing the
hullabaloo surrounding Sampath: Vermaji, a monkey expert who is
puffed up with self-importance; the brigadier, who would rather
count the birds in his garden than preside over his troops, and the
superintendent of police, who neglects his duties in hopes of being
demoted.

   Filling out the cast are Sampath's former colleagues at the post
office, an unfortunate ice cream vendor who catches the attention
of Sampath's bossy sister and a chorus of pilgrims and tourists.

   These bumbling characters may teeter on the edge of caricature,
but the author delineates them with such wit and bemused affection
that they insinuate themselves insidiously in our minds, even as
they lend the fictional town of Shahkot a palpable fairy tale
charm. With ``Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard,'' Ms. Desai has made
a modest but enchanting debut.

   Publication notes:

   HULLABALOO IN THE GUAVA ORCHARD

   By Kiran Desai

   209 pages. Atlantic Monthly Press. $22.
',
			body: '


  (editors: publication notes at end of review)  
 (bl)  
 By MICHIKO KAKUTANI   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   Although the publishers of ``Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard''
have been comparing the book to Arundhati Roy's award-winning novel
``God of Small Things,'' 27-year old Kiran Desai turns out to have
less in common with Ms. Roy or Salman Rushdie than with an older
generation of Indian writers, including her mother, Anita Desai,
and R.K. Narayan.

   There are no grand, mythic visions at work in ``Hullabaloo,'' no
ambitious displays of magical realism. Rather, the novel stands as
a meticulously crafted piece of gently comic satire _ a small,
finely tuned fable that attests to the author's pitch-perfect ear
for character and mood, and her natural storytelling gifts.

   As Narayan has done in his well-known Malgudi stories, Ms. Desai
has conjured up a small Indian town, poised midway between
tradition and modernity, and focused on the life of one of that
town's anonymous inhabitants _ a dreamy, introspective fellow torn
between his familial obligations and his own desire to be left
alone.

   In the case of ``Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard,'' this dreamer
is a slovenly young man named Sampath Chawla, who was born in the
town of Shahkot during a historic monsoon that ended months of
drought. For years, Sampath has done nothing to live up to the
expectations wrought by his auspicious birth: he has sleepwalked
through school, daydreamed through work. Since getting a job at the
local post office, he has spent most of his free time reading other
people's mail and musing about their lives.

   Although Sampath causes his go-getter father endless grief, his
grandmother prophesies great things: ``But the world is round,''
she declares. ``Wait and see! Even if it appears he is going
downhill, he will come up out on the other side. Yes, on top of the
world. He is just taking the longer route.''

   Because ``Hullabaloo'' is the kind of fable where prophecies
always come true, Sampath's grandmother is quickly proven correct.
Not long after Sampath runs away from home and takes up residence
in a guava tree with a band of monkeys, he is being acclaimed as
the hermit of Shahkot, a visionary blessed with ``an unusual
spiritual nature.'' His furtive reading of other people's mail has
endowed him with what seems like the power of second sight, just as
his simple-minded love of adages promotes a reputation for
``unfathomable wisdom.''

   If Sampath's incongruous enshrinement as a wise man plays off
the hallowed Indian tradition of spiritual enlightenment, the
events that accompany his newly discovered holiness read like an
out-and-out sendup of the Western cult of celebrity.

   Sampath's ambitious father is soon gussying up his son's orchard
bower (trying hard to keep a balance ``between the look of
abstemiousness and actual comfort'') and concocting a host of
moneymaking schemes designed to capitalize on his son's newfound
fame. Soon, buses and rickshaws are bringing tourists to visit
``the famous Baba in his treetop hermitage,'' and making Sampath's
family rich.

   All is not well, however. Sampath's monkey companions have
developed a taste for liquor and become a growing public nuisance.
Worse, a spy for the local Atheist Society has vowed to expose
Sampath as a fraud. ``It was precisely people like Sampath who
obstructed the progress of this nation, keeping honest, educated
people like him in the backwaters along with them,'' the spy
thinks. ``They ate away at these striving, intelligent souls, they
ate away at progress and smothered anybody who tried to make a
stand against the vast uneducated hordes, swelling and growing
toward the biggest population of idiots in the world.''

   Ms. Desai does a clever, dexterous job of orchestrating these
events, and in doing so introduces a sprawling cast of characters
rendered in bright folk-art colors. There's Sampath's immediate
family, of course: his hustling, status-conscious father; his
eccentric, ditsy mother and his pushy, man-handling sister. And
then there are the town officials, charged with containing the
hullabaloo surrounding Sampath: Vermaji, a monkey expert who is
puffed up with self-importance; the brigadier, who would rather
count the birds in his garden than preside over his troops, and the
superintendent of police, who neglects his duties in hopes of being
demoted.

   Filling out the cast are Sampath's former colleagues at the post
office, an unfortunate ice cream vendor who catches the attention
of Sampath's bossy sister and a chorus of pilgrims and tourists.

   These bumbling characters may teeter on the edge of caricature,
but the author delineates them with such wit and bemused affection
that they insinuate themselves insidiously in our minds, even as
they lend the fictional town of Shahkot a palpable fairy tale
charm. With ``Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard,'' Ms. Desai has made
a modest but enchanting debut.

   Publication notes:

   HULLABALOO IN THE GUAVA ORCHARD

   By Kiran Desai

   209 pages. Atlantic Monthly Press. $22.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0176 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:47 ',
			header: '
A5003 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PALESTINIAN-REFUGEE-B     06-11 1538
',
			slug: ' BC-PALESTINIAN-REFUGEE-BOS ',
			headline: '
THREE GENERATIONS OF PALESTINIAN REFUGEES SEE HOME AS A DREAM
',
			trailer: '
   GAZA CITY _ Fifty years ago, Hakma Abu Gharoud, then nine months
pregnant, fled her Arab village in panic as Israeli tanks closed
in.

   On the road outside her village, she went into labor. As her
screams were drowned out by the thunder of shelling, she delivered
a baby boy in an open field.

   She named him Mohajir, which in Arabic means ``refugee.''

   Mohajir Abu Gharoud celebrated his 50th birthday on May 15, the
half-century anniversary of what Israelis call the War of
Independence and what Palestinians call ``Al Naqba,'' or ``The
Catastrophe.'' Today, Mohajir and his mother still live in the
squalor of the United Nations refugee camp where the family ended
up after the 1948 war that gave birth to the nation of Israel but
displaced some 700,000 Arabs.

   This story traces three generations of Palestinian refugees
through four different wars, the 1987 ``intifadah'' or uprising,
the thrilling hope of the 1993 peace agreement, and now the
creeping cynicism over the indifference and the corruption of the
newly formed Palestinian Authority and a deadlocked peace plan.

   The stories of hundreds of thousands of Palestinian families
like the Gharouds are an indelible part of Israeli history. Through
the recent fireworks displays and military parades of its silver
anniversary, Israel ponders its past and its future, and it
struggles to reconcile the history of the vanquished with its own
triumphs.

   According to census figures, 2.8 million Palestinians now live
in the West Bank and Gaza. Another 4.2 million are scattered around
the world, primarily in Jordan, Lebanon and the Gulf States. Some
3.3 million are officially registered by the UN as refugees in
Palestinian-controlled areas of the West Bank and Gaza, and in
Jordan, and Lebanon.

   The refugees remain in sprawling, squalid camps _ due in part to
poverty, but also to their refusal to accept permanent housing
because they do not want to relinquish their status as
internationally recognized refugees. If they cede that designation,
they fear losing any chance to return to homes taken by the Israeli
government.

   Jamal Shati, 40, head of the Palestinian Refugee Affairs
Committee, explains, ``If we go forward today not recognizing the
right to return, then tomorrow and for the next 100 years this land
will be in a cycle of violence.''

   Still, those Palestinian Authority leaders who speak candidly on
background admit that the new Palestinian government has largely
abandoned any hope of returning refugees to their former homes in
what is now Israel.

   Shati adds that the Palestinians must avoid any discussion about
financial compensation for their land because it would denote
acceptance of permanent displacement. ``To even think about the
amount of compensation is taboo,'' he said. ``The right of return
is like a prayer. We praise God five times a day, and for return
just as often.''

   While the UN runs the refugee camps, some 1.1 million refugees
live on land that is now under Palestinian control. Shati avoided
questions about why the conditions have not improved under
Palestinian leadership.

   The difficult question of refugee status has been delayed until
the ``final status'' talks of the Israeli-Palestinian peace accord
begin.

   The broader historic questions about how these people came to be
refugees _ whether they fled their homes or were forced out by
Israeli forces _ are still being explored within Israel.

   A group of leftist Israeli academics known as the ``new
historians'' have challenged what they call the ``myths of
Zionism.''

   Benny Morris, a Hebrew University history professor, is
considered the leader of the movement that challenges the
traditional Zionist view that during the 1948-49 war, Palestinians
fled voluntarily or at the behest of their own leaders.

   Through years of research published in several books, Morris has
argued that Jewish forces executed a coordinated strategy to rid
hundreds of Arab villages of their people through force,
intimidation, and in some cases, terror. ``We have set out to
debunk the myths, to challenge some very fundamental notions of
Zionism,'' said Morris. ``And when you do that you stir things
up.''

   Efraim Karsh, a London University history professor and author
of ``Fabricating Israeli History: The New Historians,'' counters
that Morris's work is fundamentally flawed.

   Karsh argues the Palestinian refugee problem was created from a
situation in which an extremist Arab leadership made the mistake of
going to war against the fledgling Jewish state. He believes the
Palestinian wounds are essentially ``self-inflicted.'' As he
explains it in his book, the Palestinians lost the war and heeded
the misguided advice of their leaders to leave their homes. He is
infuriated that Israelis should provide the intellectual support
for a reexamination of that history.

   A respected Palestinian historian, Ibrahim Abu Lughud, maintains
that neither the left nor the right in Israeli academic circles
should speak for the Palestinians.

   ``For too long the Israelis have not only controlled the state,
but the writing of its history as well,'' he said. ``Even the left
ultimately seeks an intellectual backing that allows Israel to take
the land and then bless the next generation with an innocence in
keeping the land. We need now to write our own history so that this
will not be lost.''

   The Gharoud family is a living piece of that history.

   Mother and son told their story in a dingy courtyard of the
Jabalya Refugee Camp, where sunlight sliced through cracks in a
corrugated tin roof. A foul odor wafted from narrow alleys where
children played near open sewers.

   ``I watch the Israelis celebrating. I think my family's land has
been taken and they dance in the streets,'' said Mohajir, who works
as a taxi driver to provide for his six children.

   Dressed in a traditional black veil, his mother, Hakma, leaned
on a wooden cane worn down like driftwood as she remembered the
family village. It was called Ashweih, near what is now Beersheba,
where some 200 Bedouin tribesmen worked as shepherds and worked the
wheat fields.

   ``I still dream of returning,'' she said. ``Just to smell the
earth again.''

   Hakma, who does not know her exact age but says she is about 70,
recounted how fear gripped Arab villages as reports of an Israeli
massacre in the village of Deir Yassin spread. In Deir Yassin on
April 9, 1948, some 250 people were killed, many of them women and
children, in what is generally viewed as the worst wartime atrocity
committed by Jewish forces.

   ``When they came attacking, we ran for our lives,'' she
recalled.

   The family fled to a UN camp in the Gaza Strip, then controlled
by Egypt. But they did not escape the toll of war. In November
1956, Israel invaded and captured Gaza in a coordinated move with
Britain and France to seize the Suez Canal from Egypt. Hakma's
oldest son, 17 at the time, was killed. She was shot through her
right breast. The injury left her unable to breast-feed her infant
children. That condition, combined with food shortages and an
unsanitary environment, led to the deaths of four of her daughters
over the next seven years. A simple stone marks each lost child in
a nearby graveyard.

   Through these tragedies, Hakma's sons became politicized. From
1969 to 1973, Mohajir was imprisoned by Israelis for his
involvement with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine,
an extremist group responsible for a spate of brutal airplane
hijackings in the 1970s.

   By 1973, the Popular Front's tactics had become too brutal for
Mohajir. He simply wanted to work. As a day laborer for an Israeli
farmer, he returned to the site of his former village to harvest
onions for $3 a day. An elderly villager who worked with him told
him they were in the very same field where Mohajir was born.

   As the intifadah erupted in 1987, the family was caught once
again in conflict. This time it was Mohajir's sons who were
fighting against occupying Israeli troops. His oldest, Tayzir, was
shot twice during clashes.

   Tayzir is now a 27-year-old police officer for the Palestinian
Authority. He leaves for work each day in his blue uniform, proud
of the accomplishments of the Palestinian Authority but impatient
with the stalled peace process.

   Another of Hakma's sons, Kamel, 36, is more cynical about the
Palestinian Authority. He points out that since the Palestinian
Authority took control of Gaza and the refugee camps after the 1993
peace agreement, it has done little to improve living conditions or
economic opportunities for Palestinians.

   ``The PA is an investment company that earns profit from the
people. And all of it only goes to a few rich people. I get angry
every time I see their mansions,'' said Kamel, referring to the
expensive homes in Gaza of the authority officials.

   Mohajir nods in agreement with his brother: ``In the beginning
of the peace we had new hope. But now there is more despair than
ever.''
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By CHARLES M. SENNOTT  
 c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   GAZA CITY _ Fifty years ago, Hakma Abu Gharoud, then nine months
pregnant, fled her Arab village in panic as Israeli tanks closed
in.

   On the road outside her village, she went into labor. As her
screams were drowned out by the thunder of shelling, she delivered
a baby boy in an open field.

   She named him Mohajir, which in Arabic means ``refugee.''

   Mohajir Abu Gharoud celebrated his 50th birthday on May 15, the
half-century anniversary of what Israelis call the War of
Independence and what Palestinians call ``Al Naqba,'' or ``The
Catastrophe.'' Today, Mohajir and his mother still live in the
squalor of the United Nations refugee camp where the family ended
up after the 1948 war that gave birth to the nation of Israel but
displaced some 700,000 Arabs.

   This story traces three generations of Palestinian refugees
through four different wars, the 1987 ``intifadah'' or uprising,
the thrilling hope of the 1993 peace agreement, and now the
creeping cynicism over the indifference and the corruption of the
newly formed Palestinian Authority and a deadlocked peace plan.

   The stories of hundreds of thousands of Palestinian families
like the Gharouds are an indelible part of Israeli history. Through
the recent fireworks displays and military parades of its silver
anniversary, Israel ponders its past and its future, and it
struggles to reconcile the history of the vanquished with its own
triumphs.

   According to census figures, 2.8 million Palestinians now live
in the West Bank and Gaza. Another 4.2 million are scattered around
the world, primarily in Jordan, Lebanon and the Gulf States. Some
3.3 million are officially registered by the UN as refugees in
Palestinian-controlled areas of the West Bank and Gaza, and in
Jordan, and Lebanon.

   The refugees remain in sprawling, squalid camps _ due in part to
poverty, but also to their refusal to accept permanent housing
because they do not want to relinquish their status as
internationally recognized refugees. If they cede that designation,
they fear losing any chance to return to homes taken by the Israeli
government.

   Jamal Shati, 40, head of the Palestinian Refugee Affairs
Committee, explains, ``If we go forward today not recognizing the
right to return, then tomorrow and for the next 100 years this land
will be in a cycle of violence.''

   Still, those Palestinian Authority leaders who speak candidly on
background admit that the new Palestinian government has largely
abandoned any hope of returning refugees to their former homes in
what is now Israel.

   Shati adds that the Palestinians must avoid any discussion about
financial compensation for their land because it would denote
acceptance of permanent displacement. ``To even think about the
amount of compensation is taboo,'' he said. ``The right of return
is like a prayer. We praise God five times a day, and for return
just as often.''

   While the UN runs the refugee camps, some 1.1 million refugees
live on land that is now under Palestinian control. Shati avoided
questions about why the conditions have not improved under
Palestinian leadership.

   The difficult question of refugee status has been delayed until
the ``final status'' talks of the Israeli-Palestinian peace accord
begin.

   The broader historic questions about how these people came to be
refugees _ whether they fled their homes or were forced out by
Israeli forces _ are still being explored within Israel.

   A group of leftist Israeli academics known as the ``new
historians'' have challenged what they call the ``myths of
Zionism.''

   Benny Morris, a Hebrew University history professor, is
considered the leader of the movement that challenges the
traditional Zionist view that during the 1948-49 war, Palestinians
fled voluntarily or at the behest of their own leaders.

   Through years of research published in several books, Morris has
argued that Jewish forces executed a coordinated strategy to rid
hundreds of Arab villages of their people through force,
intimidation, and in some cases, terror. ``We have set out to
debunk the myths, to challenge some very fundamental notions of
Zionism,'' said Morris. ``And when you do that you stir things
up.''

   Efraim Karsh, a London University history professor and author
of ``Fabricating Israeli History: The New Historians,'' counters
that Morris's work is fundamentally flawed.

   Karsh argues the Palestinian refugee problem was created from a
situation in which an extremist Arab leadership made the mistake of
going to war against the fledgling Jewish state. He believes the
Palestinian wounds are essentially ``self-inflicted.'' As he
explains it in his book, the Palestinians lost the war and heeded
the misguided advice of their leaders to leave their homes. He is
infuriated that Israelis should provide the intellectual support
for a reexamination of that history.

   A respected Palestinian historian, Ibrahim Abu Lughud, maintains
that neither the left nor the right in Israeli academic circles
should speak for the Palestinians.

   ``For too long the Israelis have not only controlled the state,
but the writing of its history as well,'' he said. ``Even the left
ultimately seeks an intellectual backing that allows Israel to take
the land and then bless the next generation with an innocence in
keeping the land. We need now to write our own history so that this
will not be lost.''

   The Gharoud family is a living piece of that history.

   Mother and son told their story in a dingy courtyard of the
Jabalya Refugee Camp, where sunlight sliced through cracks in a
corrugated tin roof. A foul odor wafted from narrow alleys where
children played near open sewers.

   ``I watch the Israelis celebrating. I think my family's land has
been taken and they dance in the streets,'' said Mohajir, who works
as a taxi driver to provide for his six children.

   Dressed in a traditional black veil, his mother, Hakma, leaned
on a wooden cane worn down like driftwood as she remembered the
family village. It was called Ashweih, near what is now Beersheba,
where some 200 Bedouin tribesmen worked as shepherds and worked the
wheat fields.

   ``I still dream of returning,'' she said. ``Just to smell the
earth again.''

   Hakma, who does not know her exact age but says she is about 70,
recounted how fear gripped Arab villages as reports of an Israeli
massacre in the village of Deir Yassin spread. In Deir Yassin on
April 9, 1948, some 250 people were killed, many of them women and
children, in what is generally viewed as the worst wartime atrocity
committed by Jewish forces.

   ``When they came attacking, we ran for our lives,'' she
recalled.

   The family fled to a UN camp in the Gaza Strip, then controlled
by Egypt. But they did not escape the toll of war. In November
1956, Israel invaded and captured Gaza in a coordinated move with
Britain and France to seize the Suez Canal from Egypt. Hakma's
oldest son, 17 at the time, was killed. She was shot through her
right breast. The injury left her unable to breast-feed her infant
children. That condition, combined with food shortages and an
unsanitary environment, led to the deaths of four of her daughters
over the next seven years. A simple stone marks each lost child in
a nearby graveyard.

   Through these tragedies, Hakma's sons became politicized. From
1969 to 1973, Mohajir was imprisoned by Israelis for his
involvement with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine,
an extremist group responsible for a spate of brutal airplane
hijackings in the 1970s.

   By 1973, the Popular Front's tactics had become too brutal for
Mohajir. He simply wanted to work. As a day laborer for an Israeli
farmer, he returned to the site of his former village to harvest
onions for $3 a day. An elderly villager who worked with him told
him they were in the very same field where Mohajir was born.

   As the intifadah erupted in 1987, the family was caught once
again in conflict. This time it was Mohajir's sons who were
fighting against occupying Israeli troops. His oldest, Tayzir, was
shot twice during clashes.

   Tayzir is now a 27-year-old police officer for the Palestinian
Authority. He leaves for work each day in his blue uniform, proud
of the accomplishments of the Palestinian Authority but impatient
with the stalled peace process.

   Another of Hakma's sons, Kamel, 36, is more cynical about the
Palestinian Authority. He points out that since the Palestinian
Authority took control of Gaza and the refugee camps after the 1993
peace agreement, it has done little to improve living conditions or
economic opportunities for Palestinians.

   ``The PA is an investment company that earns profit from the
people. And all of it only goes to a few rich people. I get angry
every time I see their mansions,'' said Kamel, referring to the
expensive homes in Gaza of the authority officials.

   Mohajir nods in agreement with his brother: ``In the beginning
of the peace we had new hope. But now there is more despair than
ever.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0177 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:50 ',
			header: '
A5010 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-DAYS-FILM-REVIEW-NYT &LR;      06-11 0878
',
			slug: ' BC-DAYS-FILM-REVIEW-NYT ',
			headline: '
`SIX DAYS, SEVEN NIGHTS:' A COUPLE OF STRANGERS IN PARADISE 
',
			trailer: '
   Deciding that escapist romance for the Treadmill Generation has
to be a workout in its own right, Ivan Reitman's ``Six Days, Seven
Nights'' puts its stars through the wringer.

   Not even in action pictures do muscles often matter the way they
do here. Marooned on a breathtaking desert island, Anne Heche and
Harrison Ford share both amorous stirrings and personal training,
doing enough climbing, hauling and flexing to shame anybody (i.e.,
you there, loafing in the audience) who is merely killing time in
the dark.

   Among the numerous homages in a film that yearns for little
distractions is the ``From Here to Eternity'' surf kiss with a new
twist: hiking boots.

   A Tracy-Hepburn dynamic is meant to add spice to this situation,
and to some degree it does. Ms. Heche and Ford make an appealing,
wisecracking team, and they look comfortable with the rugged
demands of their roles. She's the sophisticate, he's the rogue, and
both display the survival skills that matter more in Hollywood than
in a tropical paradise.

   Ms. Heche makes it clear that she can play anybody's love
interest radiantly and underscores that people seen flirting on
screen are quite possibly acting. And Ford, in his role here,
reaffirms that in his mid-50s he hasn't aged out of the romantic
hero racket. ``You still look good,'' Ms. Heche admits. ``I still
AM good,'' he replies with an irresistible grin.

   In a film that's as long on gorgeous scenery as it is short on
new ideas, Ford's Quinn Harris staggers out of Margaritaville to
encounter Ms. Heche's Robin Monroe and her drippy beau, Frank
Martin (David Schwimmer). He's a yuppie who visits the gym daily,
and she's a fashionable magazine editor in black (the favorite
female character this movie season).

   These two are badly in need of a getaway, and once they reach
the South Pacific, they're in need of Quinn's services as a cargo
pilot with a tiny old plane. Quinn is the unreliable type. Five
hours after transporting the lovebirds to their touristy
destination, he's lurching up to the bar to pick up Robin. He
doesn't remember having seen her before.

   In rapid succession, Frank and Robin get engaged and Robin gets
a call (from Allison Janney, playing a woefully chic editor)
sending her to Tahiti for a photo shoot. A pilot is needed, and
from here we can follow the dots until the plane goes down. Reitman
directs with such all-purpose zippiness that the plane crash is
intercut with scenes of Angelica (Jacqueline Obrados), Quinn's
voluptuous girlfriend, doing a scorching tropical dance for a group
of tourists that includes lonely, self-pitying Frank.

   Follow the dots some more. Miracle of miracles, Robin gets an
even better vacation than the one she bargained for. She lands on
the island with a perfect, fetching wardrobe of slips, bikinis and
little shorts. The scenery (Kauai, Hawaii) is exotic and grand. The
cuisine is healthy and light, what with a peacock caught by Quinn
and breadfruit from the trees. And since there really isn't all
that much to do here, Michael Browning's screenplay cooks up
pirates (led by Temuera Morrison of ``Once Were Warriors'') who
seem to have escaped from a theme park. Minus only parrots, peg
legs and the skull and crossbones, they look unmistakably piratey
yet manage to ambush a motorboat at sea.

   While it might be natural to expect sparks to fly between Quinn
and Robin, ``Six Days, Seven Nights'' remains peculiarly prim.
There's actually a scene in which the two embrace, Quinn glimpses
the engagement ring, he draws away regretfully and nothing more is
said.

   The one sexual event that does occur here has practically
nothing to do with the personalities involved, since the film does
such an awkward job of linking romance to the rest of life. There's
an episode in which a snake swims into Ms. Heche's shorts and Ford
has to save her, and that summer-camp escapade is as erotic an
event as the film can muster.

   Bombshell credit does go to Ms. Obrados, discovered by an
enterprising producer while she held a checkout job at a grocery
store and who torches up the film as if Salma Hayak were in town.
She also gets laughs by giddily propositioning Frank with the
weirdest come-on imaginable: ``It's like when, after a funeral,
everybody has sex!''

   Production notes:

   SIX DAYS, SEVEN NIGHTS

   CAST: Harrison Ford (Quinn Harris), Anne Heche (Robin Monroe),
David Schwimmer (Frank Martin), Jacqueline Obradors (Angelica),
Temuera Morrison (Jager) and Allison Janney (Marjorie).

   Directed by Ivan Reitman; written by Michael Browning; director
of photography, Michael Chapman; edited by Sheldon Kahn and Wendy
Greene Bricmont; music by Randy Edelman; production designer, J.
Michael Riva; produced by Reitman, Wallis Nicita and Roger
Birnbaum; released by Touchstone Pictures.

   Running time: 146 minutes.

   Rating: ``Six Days, Seven Nights'' is rated PG-13 (Parents
strongly cautioned). It includes profanity, sexual situations and
the near-nudity of skimpy, costumes on the two female stars.

   &QL;
',
			body: '


   (editors: production notes at end of review)  
 (bl)  
 By JANET MASLIN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   Deciding that escapist romance for the Treadmill Generation has
to be a workout in its own right, Ivan Reitman's ``Six Days, Seven
Nights'' puts its stars through the wringer.

   Not even in action pictures do muscles often matter the way they
do here. Marooned on a breathtaking desert island, Anne Heche and
Harrison Ford share both amorous stirrings and personal training,
doing enough climbing, hauling and flexing to shame anybody (i.e.,
you there, loafing in the audience) who is merely killing time in
the dark.

   Among the numerous homages in a film that yearns for little
distractions is the ``From Here to Eternity'' surf kiss with a new
twist: hiking boots.

   A Tracy-Hepburn dynamic is meant to add spice to this situation,
and to some degree it does. Ms. Heche and Ford make an appealing,
wisecracking team, and they look comfortable with the rugged
demands of their roles. She's the sophisticate, he's the rogue, and
both display the survival skills that matter more in Hollywood than
in a tropical paradise.

   Ms. Heche makes it clear that she can play anybody's love
interest radiantly and underscores that people seen flirting on
screen are quite possibly acting. And Ford, in his role here,
reaffirms that in his mid-50s he hasn't aged out of the romantic
hero racket. ``You still look good,'' Ms. Heche admits. ``I still
AM good,'' he replies with an irresistible grin.

   In a film that's as long on gorgeous scenery as it is short on
new ideas, Ford's Quinn Harris staggers out of Margaritaville to
encounter Ms. Heche's Robin Monroe and her drippy beau, Frank
Martin (David Schwimmer). He's a yuppie who visits the gym daily,
and she's a fashionable magazine editor in black (the favorite
female character this movie season).

   These two are badly in need of a getaway, and once they reach
the South Pacific, they're in need of Quinn's services as a cargo
pilot with a tiny old plane. Quinn is the unreliable type. Five
hours after transporting the lovebirds to their touristy
destination, he's lurching up to the bar to pick up Robin. He
doesn't remember having seen her before.

   In rapid succession, Frank and Robin get engaged and Robin gets
a call (from Allison Janney, playing a woefully chic editor)
sending her to Tahiti for a photo shoot. A pilot is needed, and
from here we can follow the dots until the plane goes down. Reitman
directs with such all-purpose zippiness that the plane crash is
intercut with scenes of Angelica (Jacqueline Obrados), Quinn's
voluptuous girlfriend, doing a scorching tropical dance for a group
of tourists that includes lonely, self-pitying Frank.

   Follow the dots some more. Miracle of miracles, Robin gets an
even better vacation than the one she bargained for. She lands on
the island with a perfect, fetching wardrobe of slips, bikinis and
little shorts. The scenery (Kauai, Hawaii) is exotic and grand. The
cuisine is healthy and light, what with a peacock caught by Quinn
and breadfruit from the trees. And since there really isn't all
that much to do here, Michael Browning's screenplay cooks up
pirates (led by Temuera Morrison of ``Once Were Warriors'') who
seem to have escaped from a theme park. Minus only parrots, peg
legs and the skull and crossbones, they look unmistakably piratey
yet manage to ambush a motorboat at sea.

   While it might be natural to expect sparks to fly between Quinn
and Robin, ``Six Days, Seven Nights'' remains peculiarly prim.
There's actually a scene in which the two embrace, Quinn glimpses
the engagement ring, he draws away regretfully and nothing more is
said.

   The one sexual event that does occur here has practically
nothing to do with the personalities involved, since the film does
such an awkward job of linking romance to the rest of life. There's
an episode in which a snake swims into Ms. Heche's shorts and Ford
has to save her, and that summer-camp escapade is as erotic an
event as the film can muster.

   Bombshell credit does go to Ms. Obrados, discovered by an
enterprising producer while she held a checkout job at a grocery
store and who torches up the film as if Salma Hayak were in town.
She also gets laughs by giddily propositioning Frank with the
weirdest come-on imaginable: ``It's like when, after a funeral,
everybody has sex!''

   Production notes:

   SIX DAYS, SEVEN NIGHTS

   CAST: Harrison Ford (Quinn Harris), Anne Heche (Robin Monroe),
David Schwimmer (Frank Martin), Jacqueline Obradors (Angelica),
Temuera Morrison (Jager) and Allison Janney (Marjorie).

   Directed by Ivan Reitman; written by Michael Browning; director
of photography, Michael Chapman; edited by Sheldon Kahn and Wendy
Greene Bricmont; music by Randy Edelman; production designer, J.
Michael Riva; produced by Reitman, Wallis Nicita and Roger
Birnbaum; released by Touchstone Pictures.

   Running time: 146 minutes.

   Rating: ``Six Days, Seven Nights'' is rated PG-13 (Parents
strongly cautioned). It includes profanity, sexual situations and
the near-nudity of skimpy, costumes on the two female stars.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0178 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:53 ',
			header: '
A5013 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-2N     06-11 0742
',
			slug: ' BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-2NDLD-WRITETHRU-HNS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   The Hearst News Service has filed or will file these stories for
Friday and Sunday. If you have questions, please call Susie McBee
or Tim Spence at 202-298-6920. For questions about Houston
Chronicle sports stories, please call the Houston Chronicle Sports
Department, 713-220-7896.

   &LR;  &QL;

   (EDs: Subs RACIAL-ATTACK item to delete reference to Gore.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   (The ``HNS'' tag appears in all sluglines.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   For Friday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CLINTON-CHINA (Washington) _ President Clinton combats mounting
criticism of his mission to China, casting it as a ``principled and
pragmatic'' effort to protect U.S. interests. In a speech, he again
defends his planned participation in an official welcoming ceremony
in Tiananmen Square, where hundreds of pro-democracy demonstrators
were massacred in 1989. By STEWART M. POWELL.

   PELOSI-CHINA (Washington) _ Rep. Nancy Pelosi sharpens her
attacks on President Clinton's China policy, saying the president
is ``either in denial or ill-informed about what's going on in
China.'' By JUDY HOLLAND. (Already filed)

   RENO-JASPER (Washington) _ Attorney General Janet Reno says the
Justice Department will investigate the case of three white men
accused of beating and then dragging a black man to his death in
Jasper, Texas. The department is considering filing federal charges
that the suspects violated the man's civil rights. By MARK HELM.

   OFFSHORE-OIL (Washington) _ President Clinton is expected to
extend a moratorium on offshore oil development along the
California coast beyond the expiration of the existing moratorium
in 2000. Clinton will announce his decision Friday in California.
By STEWART M. POWELL. (Already filed)

   TOBACCO-BACKFIRE (Washington) _ When Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas,
first offered a marriage tax-cut amendment to the tobacco bill that
he strongly opposes, it appeared he had come up with a tactic that
would kill it. Instead, the move gave it new life, in what Sen.
Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., calls the law of ``unintended
consequences.'' By JUDY HOLLAND.

   TOBACCO-SENATE (Washington) _ The Senate continues its
consideration of tobacco legislation that would add $1.10 to the
cost of a pack of cigarettes. One area expected to be debated is
limits on attorney fees in tobacco lawsuits. By BENNETT ROTH.

   NATIONAL NEWS (``a'' category)

   RACIAL-ATTACK (Jasper, Texas) _ The authorities in Jasper have
formed a task force, to be headed by the FBI, to investigate the
slaying of James Byrd Jr. Three white men are accused of beating
and dragging the black man to his death. By RICHARD STEWART and
T.J. MILLING.

   COMMENTARY (``k'' category)

   MEANS-COLUMN (Washington) _ If you still think the death penalty
is never morally justified, pay attention to the shocking murder in
Texas, in which three white men stand accused of dragging a black
man behind a truck to his death. This is the kind of horror that
cries out for the ultimate punishment. By MARIANNE MEANS.

   SPORTS (``s'' category)

   BKN-NBAFINALS (Chicago) _ It could be the final game of Michael
Jordan's NBA career. And could there be a more perfect ending to
the Chicago Bulls' run that to wrap up their sixth NBA Championship
on their home court? By EDDIE SEFKO.

   SOC-WORLD-CUP (Bordeaux, France) _ In World Cup action, the
opening-round match between Italy and Chile ends 2-2. By JOHN P.
LOPEZ

   HKN-STANLEY (Detroit) _ The Detroit Red Wings hope to take a 2-0
lead over the Washington Capitals in Game 2 of the Stanley Cup
Finals. By NEIL HOHLFELD.

   BBN-ASTROS (Cincinnati) _ Riding a five-game winning streak and
holding a two-game lead in the NL Central race, the Houston Astros
are in the middle of a soft stretch of the schedule where their
next four opponents are all sub .500 teams. By JOSEPH DUARTE.

   For Sunday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CONSERVATIVE-DEMOCRATS (Washington) _ At least nine
congressional candidates are pro-gun and anti-abortion _ and
they're Democrats. The party has recruited them to run in mostly
rural districts where Democrats otherwise might not have a prayer.
Liberals say they betray the party's core values. But defenders say
recruiting them is the only way Democrats can take back the House.
By DAN FREEDMAN.
',
			body: '

  
 Thursday, June 11, 1998     
 Editors     

',
			paragraphs: '
   The Hearst News Service has filed or will file these stories for
Friday and Sunday. If you have questions, please call Susie McBee
or Tim Spence at 202-298-6920. For questions about Houston
Chronicle sports stories, please call the Houston Chronicle Sports
Department, 713-220-7896.

   &LR;  &QL;

   (EDs: Subs RACIAL-ATTACK item to delete reference to Gore.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   (The ``HNS'' tag appears in all sluglines.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   For Friday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CLINTON-CHINA (Washington) _ President Clinton combats mounting
criticism of his mission to China, casting it as a ``principled and
pragmatic'' effort to protect U.S. interests. In a speech, he again
defends his planned participation in an official welcoming ceremony
in Tiananmen Square, where hundreds of pro-democracy demonstrators
were massacred in 1989. By STEWART M. POWELL.

   PELOSI-CHINA (Washington) _ Rep. Nancy Pelosi sharpens her
attacks on President Clinton's China policy, saying the president
is ``either in denial or ill-informed about what's going on in
China.'' By JUDY HOLLAND. (Already filed)

   RENO-JASPER (Washington) _ Attorney General Janet Reno says the
Justice Department will investigate the case of three white men
accused of beating and then dragging a black man to his death in
Jasper, Texas. The department is considering filing federal charges
that the suspects violated the man's civil rights. By MARK HELM.

   OFFSHORE-OIL (Washington) _ President Clinton is expected to
extend a moratorium on offshore oil development along the
California coast beyond the expiration of the existing moratorium
in 2000. Clinton will announce his decision Friday in California.
By STEWART M. POWELL. (Already filed)

   TOBACCO-BACKFIRE (Washington) _ When Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas,
first offered a marriage tax-cut amendment to the tobacco bill that
he strongly opposes, it appeared he had come up with a tactic that
would kill it. Instead, the move gave it new life, in what Sen.
Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., calls the law of ``unintended
consequences.'' By JUDY HOLLAND.

   TOBACCO-SENATE (Washington) _ The Senate continues its
consideration of tobacco legislation that would add $1.10 to the
cost of a pack of cigarettes. One area expected to be debated is
limits on attorney fees in tobacco lawsuits. By BENNETT ROTH.

   NATIONAL NEWS (``a'' category)

   RACIAL-ATTACK (Jasper, Texas) _ The authorities in Jasper have
formed a task force, to be headed by the FBI, to investigate the
slaying of James Byrd Jr. Three white men are accused of beating
and dragging the black man to his death. By RICHARD STEWART and
T.J. MILLING.

   COMMENTARY (``k'' category)

   MEANS-COLUMN (Washington) _ If you still think the death penalty
is never morally justified, pay attention to the shocking murder in
Texas, in which three white men stand accused of dragging a black
man behind a truck to his death. This is the kind of horror that
cries out for the ultimate punishment. By MARIANNE MEANS.

   SPORTS (``s'' category)

   BKN-NBAFINALS (Chicago) _ It could be the final game of Michael
Jordan's NBA career. And could there be a more perfect ending to
the Chicago Bulls' run that to wrap up their sixth NBA Championship
on their home court? By EDDIE SEFKO.

   SOC-WORLD-CUP (Bordeaux, France) _ In World Cup action, the
opening-round match between Italy and Chile ends 2-2. By JOHN P.
LOPEZ

   HKN-STANLEY (Detroit) _ The Detroit Red Wings hope to take a 2-0
lead over the Washington Capitals in Game 2 of the Stanley Cup
Finals. By NEIL HOHLFELD.

   BBN-ASTROS (Cincinnati) _ Riding a five-game winning streak and
holding a two-game lead in the NL Central race, the Houston Astros
are in the middle of a soft stretch of the schedule where their
next four opponents are all sub .500 teams. By JOSEPH DUARTE.

   For Sunday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CONSERVATIVE-DEMOCRATS (Washington) _ At least nine
congressional candidates are pro-gun and anti-abortion _ and
they're Democrats. The party has recruited them to run in mostly
rural districts where Democrats otherwise might not have a prayer.
Liberals say they betray the party's core values. But defenders say
recruiting them is the only way Democrats can take back the House.
By DAN FREEDMAN.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0179 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:54 ',
			header: '
A5014 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MOVIES-IN-BRIEF-2TAKE     06-11 0894
',
			slug: ' BC-MOVIES-IN-BRIEF-2TAKES-NYT ',
			headline: '
MOVIE SUMMARIES  
 (JT)  
 &HT;    
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or
noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York
City. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. &LR;

   &UR; ``ARTEMISIA,'' &LR;  starring Valentina Cervi, Michel Serrault and
Miki Manojlovic. Directed by Agnes Merlet (R, 96 minutes). With its
painterly cinematography, this high-toned bodice-ripper about the
early life and times of the Italian Baroque painter Artemisia
Gentileschi, whom feminist art historians rescued from obscurity in
the 1970s, is the movie equivalent of a Caravaggio exhibition. A
sexy film, which narrowly avoided an NC-17 rating, it gives its
title character a split personality. She is not only an early
17th-century Lolita with a big streak of voyeurism, but also a
ruthlessly ambitious painting prodigy. The movie, which turns the
story of her rape by her art teacher, Agostino Tassi, into a
star-crossed love story, is very good at capturing the
all-consuming intensity of a passionate student-teacher
relationship (Stephen Holden).

   &UR; ``DEEP IMPACT,''  &LR; starring Robert Duvall, Tea Leoni, Elijah
Wood, Vanessa Redgrave, Maximilian Schell and Morgan Freeman.
Directed by Mimi Leder (PG-13, 120 minutes). Apparently there is no
better aid to family therapy than a murderously large meteor
hurtling toward Earth. So this is a more sensitive sci-fi disaster
film than most, with lovers bonding and old wounds healing as the
summer's first colossal cinematic catastrophe looms. This thriller
is vigorously made, but it provides less grisly mayhem than might
be expected. As the planet faces extinction, attention is paid to
rescuing art, antiques, elephants and flamingoes. Special-effects
wizardry provides a suitably devastating tidal wave (Janet Maslin).

   &UR; ``FEAR AND LOATHING IN LAS VEGAS,'' &LR;  starring Johnny Depp and
Benicio Del Toro. Directed by Terry Gilliam (R, 120 minutes).
Gilliam, the visually ingenious cinematic maestro behind ``Brazil''
and ``12 Monkeys,'' has filmed Hunter S. Thompson's 1971 classic of
gonzo journalism with an astonishing fidelity to the book's
psychedelic phantasmagoria. But if this is as close to recreating
the sensory world of an acid trip that a mainstream film has ever
come, the movie packs the book's vignettes together into an
overstuffed hodgepodge. Where the book conveyed a spirit of
open-ended adventure in which each new caper could be spun out into
its own little movie, the film rarely gives the book's appallingly
funny anecdotes room to breathe. Depp, who has been made partially
bald for the role of Raoul Duke, turns in a clever performance. And
Del Toro's portrayal of Raoul's gun-waving sidekick and
``attorney,'' Dr. Gonzo, is a tour de force of unfettered
goonishness (Holden).

   &UR; ``GODZILLA,''  &LR; starring Matthew Broderick, Jean Reno, Hank
Azaria and Maria Pitillo. Directed by Roland Emmerich (PG-13, 139
minutes). The ads for ``Godzilla'' proclaim that ``size does
matter.'' But it turns out that bigger doesn't necessarily mean
better. The animatronic lizard that rises from the ocean and stomps
on a number of New York City landmarks has thundering metallic
footsteps but still has the impact of a weightless cartoon monster.
The movie doesn't get scary until halfway through, when the beast's
eggs hatch (in what's left of Madison Square Garden) and an army of
more lifelike baby Godzillas threatens to devour the search party.
The storytelling and acting in this $120 million wad of gummed-up
popcorn reaches new depths of crudeness and ineptitude for a
so-called Event Movie (Holden).

   &UR; ``HOPE FLOATS,'' &LR;  starring Sandra Bullock, Harry Connick Jr.
and Gena Rowlands. Directed by Forest Whitaker (PG-13, 112
minutes). This pajama-party women's picture starts out on a talk
show and stays there, raising issues like divorce, single
parenthood, mother-daughter relationships, caring for aging
relatives and summoning the courage to date after trauma. But Ms.
Bullock, who is actually seen cheerleading here, gives her best
approximation of American's sweetheart since ``While You Were
Sleeping,'' and her winning performance helps make up for the
film's cute streak and rosy, commercial glow. Ms. Rowlands does a
feisty, down-to-earth turn as the star's Texas mama, even if the
story gives her taxidermy for an offbeat hobby. As the post-divorce
dreamboat, Connick is on the tepid side. ``The Horse Whisperer''
does this kind of serene, resuscitating romance much better
(Maslin).

   &UR; ``THE HORSE WHISPERER,''  &LR; starring Robert Redford, Kristin
Scott Thomas and Scarlett Johansson. Directed by Robert Redford
(PG-13, 164 minutes). There's a blunt soap opera of a movie inside
Nicholas Evans' widely popular novel. But Redford, directing
himself for the first time with intelligence and restraint, has
found a visually eloquent way to turn it into something much more
thoughtful and tranquil. Magnificently photographed by Robert
Richardson, this film is a wide-screen love affair with the West,
and a story more of peace and healing than of ardor. Though it's
long and its resolution is a problem, this is an enveloping film
that richly rewards the viewer's attention (Maslin).

   nn

   &UR; ``KURT AND COURTNEY,'' &LR;  featuring Kurt Cobain and Courtney
Love. Directed by Nick Broomfield (Not rated, 95 minutes).
Broomfield's latest quizzical documentary has finally surfaced,
despite various lawyers' best efforts to keep it under wraps. It is
_ and is well worth _ a trip. As in his documentary about Heidi
Fleiss, Broomfield burrows into the scuzz surrounding flamboyant
public figures to explore a colorful, sordid demimonde, in this
case mostly grunge parasites with Nirvana connections. So many
interviewees here have grievances to settle or stories to sell that
the James M. Cain echoes are stronger than they are in most film
noir. And Ms. Love, by fighting and eluding Broomfield's dogged
efforts, turns what might have been a loose, meandering film into
``Courtney and Me'' (Maslin).

   &UR; ``THE LAST DAYS OF DISCO,'' &LR;  starring Kate Beckinsale, Chloe
Sevigny, Chris Eigeman and Robert Sean Leonard. Directed by Whit
Stillman (R, 112 minutes). Stillman's smart, fretful, patrician
characters turn up midway between ``Metropolitan'' and
``Barcelona'' in a film that charmingly mixes post-college career
worries with improbable discomania. A delightful cast engages in
nonstop flirtation and hair-splitting debate, rendered with
Stillman's usual acuity and humor. Ms. Beckinsale, an English
actress with a flawless American accent here and diffidence that's
just as perfect, holds court beguilingly at the center of a bright
and amusing crowd. The ideal film for anyone willing to entertain
the notion that the spread of environmentalism was sparked by the
revival of ``Bambi'' during the disco generation's formative years
(Maslin).

   &UR; ``THE OBJECT OF MY AFFECTION,'' &LR;  directed by Nicholas Hytner.
Starring Jennifer Aniston, Paul Rudd, John Pankow and Allison
Janney (R, 111 minutes). The latest Hollywood comedy to play house
while playing with gender roles is easier to watch than believe.
Ms. Aniston is energetic and adorable, too much so for a woman who
knows exactly one heterosexual man (a comically unappetizing one)
and falls in love with her gay roommate. Pregnant, she asks her
charmingly reticent friend ( Rudd) to help her raise the baby, and
toothless complications ensue. Whatever the real-life issues raised
by such a menage, this stylish but thin comedy isn't up to handling
them. Adapted by Wendy Wasserstein from Stephen McCauley's breezy
novel of star-crossed relationships, it features welcome
worldliness from Nigel Hawthorne as the one wise, rueful figure in
the story (Maslin).

   &UR; ``THE OPPOSITE OF SEX,'' &LR;  starring Christina Ricci, Martin
Donovan, Lisa Kudrow and Lyle Lovett. Directed by Don Roos (R, 100
minutes). Wicked, foulmouthed and very funny, this gleefully
acerbic comedy finds that Ms. Ricci has morphed enchantingly from
nasty little Wednesday of ``The Addams Family'' into Lolita's evil
twin. Voluptuous and scheming, her poisonous Dedee narrates this
film and announces immediately that she won't be developing a heart
of gold. Which is, of course, mostly a lie. The film brutally
skewers preconceptions about gay and straight life, then lets its
characters intermingle in sweetly unexpected ways. Donovan and Ms.
Kudrow, as unlikely comrades brought together by Dedee's treachery,
deliver the zingers from Roos' screenplay with deadpan panache
(Maslin).

   &UR; ``A PERFECT MURDER,'' &LR;  starring Michael Douglas, Gwyneth
Paltrow ad Viggo Mortensen. Directed by Andrew Davis (R, 107
minutes). The characters may be cardboard-thin in this film, a
skillfully plotted update of Frederick Knott's play (and Alfred
Hitchcock's film) ``Dial M for Murder,'' but the nasty
cat-and-mouse games they play are icily amusing. Douglas, looking
more than ever like a wattled, riled-up rooster, is Steven Taylor,
a shady Wall Street bond trader in deep financial trouble who hires
his rich wife's handsome lover (Viggo Mortensen), a con man posing
as a painter, to murder her. It's as easy as he hopes. Ms. Paltrow,
looking chic and twinkly, is the wife, Emily, a translator at the
United Nations, who has her own agenda. The story takes enough
surprising twists to keep you engrossed, and the high-style
ambiance (especially the Taylors' Fifth Avenue apartment) is
mouthwatering (Holden).

   &UR; ``QUEST FOR CAMELOT,'' &LR;  with the voices of Jessalyn Gilsig,
Andrea Carr, Cary Elwes, Bryan White, Gary Oldman, Eric Idle and
Don Rickles. Directed by Frederik Du Chau (G, 100 minutes). Warner
Brothers' shaky entrance into the Disney-dominated sweepstakes of
the musicalized animated feature wants to be a juvenile feminist
``Lion King'' with a musical heart that fuses ``Riverdance'' with
formulaic Hollywood gush. But its characters are too wishy-washy
and visually unfocused to be compelling, and the songs (by David
Foster and Carole Bayer Sager) so forgettable as to be extraneous.
In this variation on the Arthurian legend, a nondescript Celtic
farm girl named Kayley with aspirations to be a knight wrests the
magic sword Excalibur from the evil would-be emperor Ruber (a Hulk
Hogan look-alike) and saves the kingdom (Holden).

   &UR; ``THE SPANISH PRISONER,''  &LR; starring Campbell Scott, Rebecca
Pidgeon, Ben Gazzara and Steve Martin. Written and directed by
David Mamet (PG, 112 minutes). The most engaging of Mamet's
cinematic puzzles begins with an X-ray at an airport security
check. And the audience will wish it had a similar device for
reading the characters' sneaky minds. No such luck: the mystery
here, in a handsome and Hitchcockian film named for an elaborate
con game, stays tricky to the very end. Scott plays the inventor of
a lucrative, stealable scientific process, with Gazzara as the boss
who's in no hurry to compensate him for it. In an ensemble cast
working entirely on the calculating Mamet wavelength, Martin plays
a rich, debonair mystery man who tells the inventor all about his
pretty young sister. In her performance as a pert, unaccountably
off-kilter secretary, Ms. Pidgeon perfectly embodies the film's
sleight of hand (Maslin).

   &UR; ``THE TRUMAN SHOW,''  &LR; starring Jim Carrey, Laura Linney and Ed
Harris. Directed by Peter Weir and written by Andrew Niccol (PG,
104 minutes). The ultimate in high-concept ingenuity. Hosannas and
cartwheels for this ingenious media-age fantasy are over the top,
but by comparison with Hollywood's usual notion of summer movie
fare, it's definitely a dazzler. Jim Carrey, refreshingly free of
shtick, gives an instantly iconic performance as a guinea pig for
an entertainment-happy nation, a man whose whole life is a fraud
contrived by Harris' so-called ``televisionary.'' Carrey's innate
edge of volatility gives the material, from a screenplay of
transfixing sci-fi intensity, its trace of danger. Ms. Linney, as
the actress playing a wife whose bluff could be called at any
moment, is the story's spookiest character as well as its perkiest.
Weir unifies the story's many nuances with great finesse (Maslin)

   &QL;
',
			body: '


   c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or
noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York
City. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. &LR;

   &UR; ``ARTEMISIA,'' &LR;  starring Valentina Cervi, Michel Serrault and
Miki Manojlovic. Directed by Agnes Merlet (R, 96 minutes). With its
painterly cinematography, this high-toned bodice-ripper about the
early life and times of the Italian Baroque painter Artemisia
Gentileschi, whom feminist art historians rescued from obscurity in
the 1970s, is the movie equivalent of a Caravaggio exhibition. A
sexy film, which narrowly avoided an NC-17 rating, it gives its
title character a split personality. She is not only an early
17th-century Lolita with a big streak of voyeurism, but also a
ruthlessly ambitious painting prodigy. The movie, which turns the
story of her rape by her art teacher, Agostino Tassi, into a
star-crossed love story, is very good at capturing the
all-consuming intensity of a passionate student-teacher
relationship (Stephen Holden).

   &UR; ``DEEP IMPACT,''  &LR; starring Robert Duvall, Tea Leoni, Elijah
Wood, Vanessa Redgrave, Maximilian Schell and Morgan Freeman.
Directed by Mimi Leder (PG-13, 120 minutes). Apparently there is no
better aid to family therapy than a murderously large meteor
hurtling toward Earth. So this is a more sensitive sci-fi disaster
film than most, with lovers bonding and old wounds healing as the
summer's first colossal cinematic catastrophe looms. This thriller
is vigorously made, but it provides less grisly mayhem than might
be expected. As the planet faces extinction, attention is paid to
rescuing art, antiques, elephants and flamingoes. Special-effects
wizardry provides a suitably devastating tidal wave (Janet Maslin).

   &UR; ``FEAR AND LOATHING IN LAS VEGAS,'' &LR;  starring Johnny Depp and
Benicio Del Toro. Directed by Terry Gilliam (R, 120 minutes).
Gilliam, the visually ingenious cinematic maestro behind ``Brazil''
and ``12 Monkeys,'' has filmed Hunter S. Thompson's 1971 classic of
gonzo journalism with an astonishing fidelity to the book's
psychedelic phantasmagoria. But if this is as close to recreating
the sensory world of an acid trip that a mainstream film has ever
come, the movie packs the book's vignettes together into an
overstuffed hodgepodge. Where the book conveyed a spirit of
open-ended adventure in which each new caper could be spun out into
its own little movie, the film rarely gives the book's appallingly
funny anecdotes room to breathe. Depp, who has been made partially
bald for the role of Raoul Duke, turns in a clever performance. And
Del Toro's portrayal of Raoul's gun-waving sidekick and
``attorney,'' Dr. Gonzo, is a tour de force of unfettered
goonishness (Holden).

   &UR; ``GODZILLA,''  &LR; starring Matthew Broderick, Jean Reno, Hank
Azaria and Maria Pitillo. Directed by Roland Emmerich (PG-13, 139
minutes). The ads for ``Godzilla'' proclaim that ``size does
matter.'' But it turns out that bigger doesn't necessarily mean
better. The animatronic lizard that rises from the ocean and stomps
on a number of New York City landmarks has thundering metallic
footsteps but still has the impact of a weightless cartoon monster.
The movie doesn't get scary until halfway through, when the beast's
eggs hatch (in what's left of Madison Square Garden) and an army of
more lifelike baby Godzillas threatens to devour the search party.
The storytelling and acting in this $120 million wad of gummed-up
popcorn reaches new depths of crudeness and ineptitude for a
so-called Event Movie (Holden).

   &UR; ``HOPE FLOATS,'' &LR;  starring Sandra Bullock, Harry Connick Jr.
and Gena Rowlands. Directed by Forest Whitaker (PG-13, 112
minutes). This pajama-party women's picture starts out on a talk
show and stays there, raising issues like divorce, single
parenthood, mother-daughter relationships, caring for aging
relatives and summoning the courage to date after trauma. But Ms.
Bullock, who is actually seen cheerleading here, gives her best
approximation of American's sweetheart since ``While You Were
Sleeping,'' and her winning performance helps make up for the
film's cute streak and rosy, commercial glow. Ms. Rowlands does a
feisty, down-to-earth turn as the star's Texas mama, even if the
story gives her taxidermy for an offbeat hobby. As the post-divorce
dreamboat, Connick is on the tepid side. ``The Horse Whisperer''
does this kind of serene, resuscitating romance much better
(Maslin).

   &UR; ``THE HORSE WHISPERER,''  &LR; starring Robert Redford, Kristin
Scott Thomas and Scarlett Johansson. Directed by Robert Redford
(PG-13, 164 minutes). There's a blunt soap opera of a movie inside
Nicholas Evans' widely popular novel. But Redford, directing
himself for the first time with intelligence and restraint, has
found a visually eloquent way to turn it into something much more
thoughtful and tranquil. Magnificently photographed by Robert
Richardson, this film is a wide-screen love affair with the West,
and a story more of peace and healing than of ardor. Though it's
long and its resolution is a problem, this is an enveloping film
that richly rewards the viewer's attention (Maslin).

   nn

   &UR; ``KURT AND COURTNEY,'' &LR;  featuring Kurt Cobain and Courtney
Love. Directed by Nick Broomfield (Not rated, 95 minutes).
Broomfield's latest quizzical documentary has finally surfaced,
despite various lawyers' best efforts to keep it under wraps. It is
_ and is well worth _ a trip. As in his documentary about Heidi
Fleiss, Broomfield burrows into the scuzz surrounding flamboyant
public figures to explore a colorful, sordid demimonde, in this
case mostly grunge parasites with Nirvana connections. So many
interviewees here have grievances to settle or stories to sell that
the James M. Cain echoes are stronger than they are in most film
noir. And Ms. Love, by fighting and eluding Broomfield's dogged
efforts, turns what might have been a loose, meandering film into
``Courtney and Me'' (Maslin).

   &UR; ``THE LAST DAYS OF DISCO,'' &LR;  starring Kate Beckinsale, Chloe
Sevigny, Chris Eigeman and Robert Sean Leonard. Directed by Whit
Stillman (R, 112 minutes). Stillman's smart, fretful, patrician
characters turn up midway between ``Metropolitan'' and
``Barcelona'' in a film that charmingly mixes post-college career
worries with improbable discomania. A delightful cast engages in
nonstop flirtation and hair-splitting debate, rendered with
Stillman's usual acuity and humor. Ms. Beckinsale, an English
actress with a flawless American accent here and diffidence that's
just as perfect, holds court beguilingly at the center of a bright
and amusing crowd. The ideal film for anyone willing to entertain
the notion that the spread of environmentalism was sparked by the
revival of ``Bambi'' during the disco generation's formative years
(Maslin).

   &UR; ``THE OBJECT OF MY AFFECTION,'' &LR;  directed by Nicholas Hytner.
Starring Jennifer Aniston, Paul Rudd, John Pankow and Allison
Janney (R, 111 minutes). The latest Hollywood comedy to play house
while playing with gender roles is easier to watch than believe.
Ms. Aniston is energetic and adorable, too much so for a woman who
knows exactly one heterosexual man (a comically unappetizing one)
and falls in love with her gay roommate. Pregnant, she asks her
charmingly reticent friend ( Rudd) to help her raise the baby, and
toothless complications ensue. Whatever the real-life issues raised
by such a menage, this stylish but thin comedy isn't up to handling
them. Adapted by Wendy Wasserstein from Stephen McCauley's breezy
novel of star-crossed relationships, it features welcome
worldliness from Nigel Hawthorne as the one wise, rueful figure in
the story (Maslin).

   &UR; ``THE OPPOSITE OF SEX,'' &LR;  starring Christina Ricci, Martin
Donovan, Lisa Kudrow and Lyle Lovett. Directed by Don Roos (R, 100
minutes). Wicked, foulmouthed and very funny, this gleefully
acerbic comedy finds that Ms. Ricci has morphed enchantingly from
nasty little Wednesday of ``The Addams Family'' into Lolita's evil
twin. Voluptuous and scheming, her poisonous Dedee narrates this
film and announces immediately that she won't be developing a heart
of gold. Which is, of course, mostly a lie. The film brutally
skewers preconceptions about gay and straight life, then lets its
characters intermingle in sweetly unexpected ways. Donovan and Ms.
Kudrow, as unlikely comrades brought together by Dedee's treachery,
deliver the zingers from Roos' screenplay with deadpan panache
(Maslin).

   &UR; ``A PERFECT MURDER,'' &LR;  starring Michael Douglas, Gwyneth
Paltrow ad Viggo Mortensen. Directed by Andrew Davis (R, 107
minutes). The characters may be cardboard-thin in this film, a
skillfully plotted update of Frederick Knott's play (and Alfred
Hitchcock's film) ``Dial M for Murder,'' but the nasty
cat-and-mouse games they play are icily amusing. Douglas, looking
more than ever like a wattled, riled-up rooster, is Steven Taylor,
a shady Wall Street bond trader in deep financial trouble who hires
his rich wife's handsome lover (Viggo Mortensen), a con man posing
as a painter, to murder her. It's as easy as he hopes. Ms. Paltrow,
looking chic and twinkly, is the wife, Emily, a translator at the
United Nations, who has her own agenda. The story takes enough
surprising twists to keep you engrossed, and the high-style
ambiance (especially the Taylors' Fifth Avenue apartment) is
mouthwatering (Holden).

   &UR; ``QUEST FOR CAMELOT,'' &LR;  with the voices of Jessalyn Gilsig,
Andrea Carr, Cary Elwes, Bryan White, Gary Oldman, Eric Idle and
Don Rickles. Directed by Frederik Du Chau (G, 100 minutes). Warner
Brothers' shaky entrance into the Disney-dominated sweepstakes of
the musicalized animated feature wants to be a juvenile feminist
``Lion King'' with a musical heart that fuses ``Riverdance'' with
formulaic Hollywood gush. But its characters are too wishy-washy
and visually unfocused to be compelling, and the songs (by David
Foster and Carole Bayer Sager) so forgettable as to be extraneous.
In this variation on the Arthurian legend, a nondescript Celtic
farm girl named Kayley with aspirations to be a knight wrests the
magic sword Excalibur from the evil would-be emperor Ruber (a Hulk
Hogan look-alike) and saves the kingdom (Holden).

   &UR; ``THE SPANISH PRISONER,''  &LR; starring Campbell Scott, Rebecca
Pidgeon, Ben Gazzara and Steve Martin. Written and directed by
David Mamet (PG, 112 minutes). The most engaging of Mamet's
cinematic puzzles begins with an X-ray at an airport security
check. And the audience will wish it had a similar device for
reading the characters' sneaky minds. No such luck: the mystery
here, in a handsome and Hitchcockian film named for an elaborate
con game, stays tricky to the very end. Scott plays the inventor of
a lucrative, stealable scientific process, with Gazzara as the boss
who's in no hurry to compensate him for it. In an ensemble cast
working entirely on the calculating Mamet wavelength, Martin plays
a rich, debonair mystery man who tells the inventor all about his
pretty young sister. In her performance as a pert, unaccountably
off-kilter secretary, Ms. Pidgeon perfectly embodies the film's
sleight of hand (Maslin).

   &UR; ``THE TRUMAN SHOW,''  &LR; starring Jim Carrey, Laura Linney and Ed
Harris. Directed by Peter Weir and written by Andrew Niccol (PG,
104 minutes). The ultimate in high-concept ingenuity. Hosannas and
cartwheels for this ingenious media-age fantasy are over the top,
but by comparison with Hollywood's usual notion of summer movie
fare, it's definitely a dazzler. Jim Carrey, refreshingly free of
shtick, gives an instantly iconic performance as a guinea pig for
an entertainment-happy nation, a man whose whole life is a fraud
contrived by Harris' so-called ``televisionary.'' Carrey's innate
edge of volatility gives the material, from a screenplay of
transfixing sci-fi intensity, its trace of danger. Ms. Linney, as
the actress playing a wife whose bluff could be called at any
moment, is the story's spookiest character as well as its perkiest.
Weir unifies the story's many nuances with great finesse (Maslin)

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0181 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:54 ',
			header: '
A5017 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BETTE-FILM-REVIEW-NYT     06-11 0636
',
			slug: ' BC-BETTE-FILM-REVIEW-NYT ',
			headline: '
`COUSIN BETTE'': A STUNTED TALE OF SCHEMING 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Some stories are so long and so elaborate that they
could never be comfortably squeezed into a 108-minute movie, no
matter how judicious the editing.

   Take the new film version of Balzac's novel ``Cousin Bette,'' a
mid-19th-century French antecedent of ``The Bonfire of the
Vanities.'' Even though the film, set in 1840s Paris, dispenses
with some of the novel's characters and subplots, it feels as
rushed, overstuffed and devoid of texture as Brian DePalma's
hopelessly stunted screen adaptation of ``Bonfire.''

   Still, it's not hard to see what Des McAnuff, the gifted theater
director who is making his feature film debut with ``Cousin
Bette,'' was trying for. Balzac's selfish schemers and social
climbers with their unhinged libidos are the clear forerunners of
today's egomaniacal movers and shakers and their trophy lovers. And
the director, working from a screenplay by Lynn Siefert and Susan
Tarr that compresses conversations into blunt cartoon-balloon
dialogue, treats the novel as a thoroughly modern social comedy
peopled with raging narcissists, opportunists and flat-out fools.
The pumped-up classical music that blares through the movie
suggests a deliberate spoof of ``Masterpiece Theater.''

   The film's scowling, black-clad title character (Jessica Lange),
who resembles Olivia de Havilland in ``The Heiress,'' is the
downtrodden spinster cousin of an aristocratic Parisian clan who
have always treated her like a servant. As Bette wreaks systematic
revenge on her insensitive relatives, we are encouraged to chortle
along with her as, one after another, those who have humiliated her
get their just desserts. But her grim, monochromatic performance is
too closed in to allow us to feel her obsessive rage.

   Bette's main instrument of vengeance is Wenceslas (Aden Young),
a starving and pathologically lazy sculptor whom she enlists as an
ally after saving his life. Her financial aid and career advice,
however, come at a steep price. ``You're mine,'' she reminds him
harshly, whenever he bridles at her orders.

   Wenceslas' career skyrockets once he marries Bette's pretty
cousin Hortense (Kelly Macdonald), the flibbertigibbet
artist-groupie who is the daughter of Hector Hulot (Hugh Laurie),
an aristocrat engaged in squandering his fortune on Jenny Cadine
(Elisabeth Shue), a dancer and star courtesan of the Parisian
demimonde.

   The movie is so contemptuous of its characters that it doesn't
even allow them to be sexy. Wenceslas is supposed to be a handsome
lady-killer, but Young's irresistible art star is a pudgy,
pretentious nonentity. Jenny, his female counterpart in breaking
hearts, is no less ridiculous. Her inept, buffoonish music hall
performances, where she sings horribly and bares her buttocks, are
as ludicrous as her off-stage dialogue, in which she dispenses with
lovers with a peevish ``I'm bored with you.''

   The movie's crowning joke on these two ciphers is to have them
caught by surprise in bed making love. Both are smeared from head
to toe in chocolate and look about as unappetizing as two bodies
could appear. It is enough to turn one off to Hershey bars once and
for all.

   &UR; ``Cousin Bette'':  &LR;  Directed by Des McAnuff; written by Lynn
Siefert and Susan Tarr, based on the novel by Balzac; edited by
Barry Brown; production designer, Hugo Luczyc-Wyhowski; produced by
Sarah Radclyffe and Philippe Guez; released by Fox Searchlight
Pictures. Running time: 112 minutes. This film is rated R.

   With: Jessica Lange (Bette), Elisabeth Shue (Jenny), Bob Hoskins
(Crevel), Hugh Laurie (Hector), Aden Young (Wencelas), Kelly
Macdonald (Hortense) and Geraldine Chaplin (Adeline).  &QL;

   &QL;
',
			body: '


  (ja) 
 By STEPHEN HOLDEN    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Some stories are so long and so elaborate that they
could never be comfortably squeezed into a 108-minute movie, no
matter how judicious the editing.

   Take the new film version of Balzac's novel ``Cousin Bette,'' a
mid-19th-century French antecedent of ``The Bonfire of the
Vanities.'' Even though the film, set in 1840s Paris, dispenses
with some of the novel's characters and subplots, it feels as
rushed, overstuffed and devoid of texture as Brian DePalma's
hopelessly stunted screen adaptation of ``Bonfire.''

   Still, it's not hard to see what Des McAnuff, the gifted theater
director who is making his feature film debut with ``Cousin
Bette,'' was trying for. Balzac's selfish schemers and social
climbers with their unhinged libidos are the clear forerunners of
today's egomaniacal movers and shakers and their trophy lovers. And
the director, working from a screenplay by Lynn Siefert and Susan
Tarr that compresses conversations into blunt cartoon-balloon
dialogue, treats the novel as a thoroughly modern social comedy
peopled with raging narcissists, opportunists and flat-out fools.
The pumped-up classical music that blares through the movie
suggests a deliberate spoof of ``Masterpiece Theater.''

   The film's scowling, black-clad title character (Jessica Lange),
who resembles Olivia de Havilland in ``The Heiress,'' is the
downtrodden spinster cousin of an aristocratic Parisian clan who
have always treated her like a servant. As Bette wreaks systematic
revenge on her insensitive relatives, we are encouraged to chortle
along with her as, one after another, those who have humiliated her
get their just desserts. But her grim, monochromatic performance is
too closed in to allow us to feel her obsessive rage.

   Bette's main instrument of vengeance is Wenceslas (Aden Young),
a starving and pathologically lazy sculptor whom she enlists as an
ally after saving his life. Her financial aid and career advice,
however, come at a steep price. ``You're mine,'' she reminds him
harshly, whenever he bridles at her orders.

   Wenceslas' career skyrockets once he marries Bette's pretty
cousin Hortense (Kelly Macdonald), the flibbertigibbet
artist-groupie who is the daughter of Hector Hulot (Hugh Laurie),
an aristocrat engaged in squandering his fortune on Jenny Cadine
(Elisabeth Shue), a dancer and star courtesan of the Parisian
demimonde.

   The movie is so contemptuous of its characters that it doesn't
even allow them to be sexy. Wenceslas is supposed to be a handsome
lady-killer, but Young's irresistible art star is a pudgy,
pretentious nonentity. Jenny, his female counterpart in breaking
hearts, is no less ridiculous. Her inept, buffoonish music hall
performances, where she sings horribly and bares her buttocks, are
as ludicrous as her off-stage dialogue, in which she dispenses with
lovers with a peevish ``I'm bored with you.''

   The movie's crowning joke on these two ciphers is to have them
caught by surprise in bed making love. Both are smeared from head
to toe in chocolate and look about as unappetizing as two bodies
could appear. It is enough to turn one off to Hershey bars once and
for all.

   &UR; ``Cousin Bette'':  &LR;  Directed by Des McAnuff; written by Lynn
Siefert and Susan Tarr, based on the novel by Balzac; edited by
Barry Brown; production designer, Hugo Luczyc-Wyhowski; produced by
Sarah Radclyffe and Philippe Guez; released by Fox Searchlight
Pictures. Running time: 112 minutes. This film is rated R.

   With: Jessica Lange (Bette), Elisabeth Shue (Jenny), Bob Hoskins
(Crevel), Hugh Laurie (Hector), Aden Young (Wencelas), Kelly
Macdonald (Hortense) and Geraldine Chaplin (Adeline).  &QL;

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0182 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:55 ',
			header: '
A5021 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CABLE-COMPETITION-BOS     06-11 0831
',
			slug: ' BC-CABLE-COMPETITION-BOS ',
			headline: '
TIME-WARNER CUTS ONE TOWN'S CABLE RATES AS COMPETITION EMERGES
',
			trailer: '
   SOMERVILLE, Mass. _ Cable television competition pays its first
dividends today, as established operator Time Warner responds to
challenger RCN by cutting prices for many channels and offering
customers more flexibility in choosing programming.

   While not the all-out price war some consumers and government
officials had hoped for, the new Time Warner strategy represents a
major change for a company that in the past has steadily raised
prices.

   Time Warner is betting that its 19,000 customers here will
remain loyal if they are offered a slight price reduction on most
programming, big price cuts for HBO, Cinemax and other premium
channels and more flexibility in selecting programs.

   ``Our intention is not to match RCN's prices,'' said Nick Leuci,
vice president of government and community relations at Time
Warner. ``Our intention is to provide quality customer service and
programming and offer customers greater choice.''

   The Somerville matchup between Time Warner and RCN is being
closely watched because it is the first time in Massachusetts and
one of only a handful of instances nationwide where cable companies
are competing head to head.

   RCN, the only serious challenger to cable operators other than
satellite broadcasters, has nearly all of Somerville wired and is
building systems in most of Greater Boston.

   Time Warner first hinted at its new pricing strategy last
November, when it announced it was raising its monthly fee for
standard cable service in the 32 communities it serves an average
of 10 percent. The one exception was Somerville, where it held
prices steady with RCN looming on the horizon.

   Leuci said Time Warner developed its new pricing and programming
system for Somerville after extensive research to find out what
consumers wanted. He said the system may be rolled out to other
Massachusetts customers if it is well received. Time Warner serves
235,000 customers in Massachusetts, including residents of Malden,
Everett and Swampscott.

   RCN, which is partly owned by Boston Edison, sells cable,
Internet and local and long-distance telephone service. Time Warner
currently sells only cable, but plans to expand into Internet
service.

   The two companies have very different programming and pricing
philosophies. Time Warner and most other cable companies offer
programming in tiers, starting with a low-priced basic service with
relatively few channels to which additional packages of programming
can be added. RCN offers only a 75-channel standard service
package, to which premium channels like HBO can be added.

   In Somerville, RCN currently charges $24.95 for its standard
service, or $19.97 if the customer also buys local phone service.
The price, which RCN has acknowledged is below cost, is likely to
go up soon. In Boston, where RCN serves only some portions of the
city, RCN charges $27.95 for standard service, $24.95 if packaged
with local phone service.

   Time Warner offers customers more options in bundling channels
but generally charges more. Its 18-channel basic service, which
consists of broadcast channels like WCVB-TV (Ch. 5) and public
access channels, will cost $9.10 as of today, a reduction of 19
cents.

   Its standard service, which adds another 38 channels like ESPN,
TNT and Nickelodeon, will cost $17.10, a cut of nine cents.

   The combined basic-standard service will cost $26.20 as of today
and come with 19 fewer channels than RCN's standard service. RCN
also includes many channels in its standard service for which Time
Warner customers have to pay extra, including the Disney Channel,
the Discovery Channel and the History Channel. Time Warner charges
$9.50 a month for the Disney Channel and 75 cents a month for the
other two.

   But Time Warner is cutting the prices of many of its premium
channels, in some cases below what RCN is currently charging. For
three channels of HBO, for example, Time Warner will now charge
$11.50 instead of $12.55. RCN charges $11.95 for two channels of
HBO.

   For those Time Warner customers who buy lots of programming, the
price reductions are substantial. Someone buying 71 channels of
programming plus two premium services currently pays $54.66. Under
the new system, their bill will drop to $49.95.

   Time Warner will also now allow someone buying basic service to
add selected channels on an a la carte basis. Currently, those
customers have to purchase the standard service package first and
then buy the additional channels.

   Leuci said Time Warner currently has 19,000 Somerville
customers, up about 100 since the end of 1997.

   RCN spokesman James Maiella declined to provide customer data.
``We'll be coming out with customer numbers when we get the system
built,'' which should be by the end of June, he said.
',
			body: '


  (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 By BRUCE MOHL  
 c.1998 The Boston Globe  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   SOMERVILLE, Mass. _ Cable television competition pays its first
dividends today, as established operator Time Warner responds to
challenger RCN by cutting prices for many channels and offering
customers more flexibility in choosing programming.

   While not the all-out price war some consumers and government
officials had hoped for, the new Time Warner strategy represents a
major change for a company that in the past has steadily raised
prices.

   Time Warner is betting that its 19,000 customers here will
remain loyal if they are offered a slight price reduction on most
programming, big price cuts for HBO, Cinemax and other premium
channels and more flexibility in selecting programs.

   ``Our intention is not to match RCN's prices,'' said Nick Leuci,
vice president of government and community relations at Time
Warner. ``Our intention is to provide quality customer service and
programming and offer customers greater choice.''

   The Somerville matchup between Time Warner and RCN is being
closely watched because it is the first time in Massachusetts and
one of only a handful of instances nationwide where cable companies
are competing head to head.

   RCN, the only serious challenger to cable operators other than
satellite broadcasters, has nearly all of Somerville wired and is
building systems in most of Greater Boston.

   Time Warner first hinted at its new pricing strategy last
November, when it announced it was raising its monthly fee for
standard cable service in the 32 communities it serves an average
of 10 percent. The one exception was Somerville, where it held
prices steady with RCN looming on the horizon.

   Leuci said Time Warner developed its new pricing and programming
system for Somerville after extensive research to find out what
consumers wanted. He said the system may be rolled out to other
Massachusetts customers if it is well received. Time Warner serves
235,000 customers in Massachusetts, including residents of Malden,
Everett and Swampscott.

   RCN, which is partly owned by Boston Edison, sells cable,
Internet and local and long-distance telephone service. Time Warner
currently sells only cable, but plans to expand into Internet
service.

   The two companies have very different programming and pricing
philosophies. Time Warner and most other cable companies offer
programming in tiers, starting with a low-priced basic service with
relatively few channels to which additional packages of programming
can be added. RCN offers only a 75-channel standard service
package, to which premium channels like HBO can be added.

   In Somerville, RCN currently charges $24.95 for its standard
service, or $19.97 if the customer also buys local phone service.
The price, which RCN has acknowledged is below cost, is likely to
go up soon. In Boston, where RCN serves only some portions of the
city, RCN charges $27.95 for standard service, $24.95 if packaged
with local phone service.

   Time Warner offers customers more options in bundling channels
but generally charges more. Its 18-channel basic service, which
consists of broadcast channels like WCVB-TV (Ch. 5) and public
access channels, will cost $9.10 as of today, a reduction of 19
cents.

   Its standard service, which adds another 38 channels like ESPN,
TNT and Nickelodeon, will cost $17.10, a cut of nine cents.

   The combined basic-standard service will cost $26.20 as of today
and come with 19 fewer channels than RCN's standard service. RCN
also includes many channels in its standard service for which Time
Warner customers have to pay extra, including the Disney Channel,
the Discovery Channel and the History Channel. Time Warner charges
$9.50 a month for the Disney Channel and 75 cents a month for the
other two.

   But Time Warner is cutting the prices of many of its premium
channels, in some cases below what RCN is currently charging. For
three channels of HBO, for example, Time Warner will now charge
$11.50 instead of $12.55. RCN charges $11.95 for two channels of
HBO.

   For those Time Warner customers who buy lots of programming, the
price reductions are substantial. Someone buying 71 channels of
programming plus two premium services currently pays $54.66. Under
the new system, their bill will drop to $49.95.

   Time Warner will also now allow someone buying basic service to
add selected channels on an a la carte basis. Currently, those
customers have to purchase the standard service package first and
then buy the additional channels.

   Leuci said Time Warner currently has 19,000 Somerville
customers, up about 100 since the end of 1997.

   RCN spokesman James Maiella declined to provide customer data.
``We'll be coming out with customer numbers when we get the system
built,'' which should be by the end of June, he said.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0183 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:55 ',
			header: '
A5022 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HIGH-FILM-REVIEW-NYT &LR;      06-11 0770
',
			slug: ' BC-HIGH-FILM-REVIEW-NYT ',
			headline: '
`HIGH ART': JADED ARTIST AND INGENUE IN AN ARTY SPIDER WEB 
',
			trailer: '
   ``High Art'' is an attention-getting debut feature by Lisa
Cholodenko, the rare filmmaker to acknowledge Calvin Klein ads as
part of her creative inspiration. She mentions the ads for their
subtext rather than their style.

   Interested in the collision between naturalistic, highly
personal photography and cool commerce, she makes her film's main
character a once-celebrated photographer named Lucy Berliner, who
is played by Ally Sheedy in a fierce, tricky performance that is
the film's strongest element.

   Spooked by fame, Lucy long ago retreated from the art world to
live a reclusive, druggy life in an apartment that has become a
louche mecca for her lesbian friends.

   The uninspired plot device of a plumbing emergency brings
baby-faced Syd (Radha Mitchell) into Lucy's spider web. It happens
that Lucy lives directly upstairs from Syd and her boyfriend, and
that Lucy has a leaky tub. It also happens that Syd is bored with
the boyfriend and that she works as a new recruit at Frame, a
desperately chic photography magazine.

   Wowed by Lucy's hidden world and fascinated by her images, Syd
fastens on the idea of drawing Lucy out of seclusion and putting
her in touch with Frame's editors (among them David Thornton). It
is coyly mentioned in passing that the magazine's queen bee (Anh
Duong, a painter and ex-model) used to be a receptionist at
Interview.

   Syd's professional seduction of Lucy is complicated by Lucy's
sexual gamesmanship with Syd. Ms. Sheedy's haunting, wily character
is visibly at war with herself even as she flirts with Ms.
Mitchell's pretty young thing. Guarded, bony, startlingly intense,
Lucy finds herself intrigued by Syd and the opportunity she offers:
to shake off the heroin haze and dare to start life anew.
Complicating Lucy's interest in Syd is her longtime relationship
with Greta (Patricia Clarkson), the washed-up German actress who
drips world-weary glamour and drops Fassbinder's name as often as
she can.

   Thus Ms. Cholodenko fills her story with novel ingredients and
offbeat possibilities, held together by the magnetic pull of Lucy's
life. The question of what a professional comeback might do to her
is enough to give ``High Art'' some drama, and so is the delicate
balance of power between a jaded artist and a bright-eyed ingenue.

   But the film sacrifices any hope of raw edges and real emotion
to its own chic sensibility, which is so studiously alluring that
it overwhelms the story. In its own fashionably nonchalant way,
``High Art'' proves every bit as sleek as Frame, the film's emblem
of poisonous commerce corrupting creative purity.

   By the time it reaches an ending of contrived inevitability,
``High Art'' has felt the burden of its own pretensions. Lucy's
noble superiority to the world of slick images is undercut by the
unrelenting attractiveness of the film's visual style. ``High Art''
affects a spare naturalism that looks worlds away from anything
authentic, with an emphasis on studied simplicity and flattering
light.

   Though some of the characters are so lost in drugs that even
their sexual experiences remain incomplete, the film depicts them
with incongruous (rather than revealing) clarity. A voyeuristic
charge accompanies these scenes of stylish abandon.

   To their credit, the actors immerse themselves deeply in the
film's self-conscious aura. Ms. Sheedy reinvents herself as a
tough, fascinating presence, while Ms. Mitchell's earnest
bewilderment also serves the story well.

   Ms. Clarkson, in a devilish turn, is all the comic relief this
film needs as a walking (or keeling over) reminder of the
Fassbinder demimonde. Her Greta is all that's needed to show how
these women got lost in a world that time passed by.

   Production notes:

   HIGH ART

   CAST: Ally Sheedy (Lucy Berliner), Radha Mitchell (Syd),
Patricia Clarkson (Greta), Gabriel Mann (James) and Anh Duong
(Dominique).  &QL;

   Written and directed by Lisa Cholodenko; director of
photography, Tami Reiker; edited by Amy E. Duddleston; music by
Shudder to Think; production designer, Bernhard Blythe; produced by
Dolly Hall, Jeff Levy-Hinte and Susan A. Stover; released by
October Films.

   Running time: 96 minutes.

   Rating: ``High Art'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying
parent or adult guardian). It includes frank talk and intense
sexual situations that don't involve much actual nudity.
',
			body: '


   (editors: production notes at end of review)  
 (bl)  
 By JANET MASLIN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   ``High Art'' is an attention-getting debut feature by Lisa
Cholodenko, the rare filmmaker to acknowledge Calvin Klein ads as
part of her creative inspiration. She mentions the ads for their
subtext rather than their style.

   Interested in the collision between naturalistic, highly
personal photography and cool commerce, she makes her film's main
character a once-celebrated photographer named Lucy Berliner, who
is played by Ally Sheedy in a fierce, tricky performance that is
the film's strongest element.

   Spooked by fame, Lucy long ago retreated from the art world to
live a reclusive, druggy life in an apartment that has become a
louche mecca for her lesbian friends.

   The uninspired plot device of a plumbing emergency brings
baby-faced Syd (Radha Mitchell) into Lucy's spider web. It happens
that Lucy lives directly upstairs from Syd and her boyfriend, and
that Lucy has a leaky tub. It also happens that Syd is bored with
the boyfriend and that she works as a new recruit at Frame, a
desperately chic photography magazine.

   Wowed by Lucy's hidden world and fascinated by her images, Syd
fastens on the idea of drawing Lucy out of seclusion and putting
her in touch with Frame's editors (among them David Thornton). It
is coyly mentioned in passing that the magazine's queen bee (Anh
Duong, a painter and ex-model) used to be a receptionist at
Interview.

   Syd's professional seduction of Lucy is complicated by Lucy's
sexual gamesmanship with Syd. Ms. Sheedy's haunting, wily character
is visibly at war with herself even as she flirts with Ms.
Mitchell's pretty young thing. Guarded, bony, startlingly intense,
Lucy finds herself intrigued by Syd and the opportunity she offers:
to shake off the heroin haze and dare to start life anew.
Complicating Lucy's interest in Syd is her longtime relationship
with Greta (Patricia Clarkson), the washed-up German actress who
drips world-weary glamour and drops Fassbinder's name as often as
she can.

   Thus Ms. Cholodenko fills her story with novel ingredients and
offbeat possibilities, held together by the magnetic pull of Lucy's
life. The question of what a professional comeback might do to her
is enough to give ``High Art'' some drama, and so is the delicate
balance of power between a jaded artist and a bright-eyed ingenue.

   But the film sacrifices any hope of raw edges and real emotion
to its own chic sensibility, which is so studiously alluring that
it overwhelms the story. In its own fashionably nonchalant way,
``High Art'' proves every bit as sleek as Frame, the film's emblem
of poisonous commerce corrupting creative purity.

   By the time it reaches an ending of contrived inevitability,
``High Art'' has felt the burden of its own pretensions. Lucy's
noble superiority to the world of slick images is undercut by the
unrelenting attractiveness of the film's visual style. ``High Art''
affects a spare naturalism that looks worlds away from anything
authentic, with an emphasis on studied simplicity and flattering
light.

   Though some of the characters are so lost in drugs that even
their sexual experiences remain incomplete, the film depicts them
with incongruous (rather than revealing) clarity. A voyeuristic
charge accompanies these scenes of stylish abandon.

   To their credit, the actors immerse themselves deeply in the
film's self-conscious aura. Ms. Sheedy reinvents herself as a
tough, fascinating presence, while Ms. Mitchell's earnest
bewilderment also serves the story well.

   Ms. Clarkson, in a devilish turn, is all the comic relief this
film needs as a walking (or keeling over) reminder of the
Fassbinder demimonde. Her Greta is all that's needed to show how
these women got lost in a world that time passed by.

   Production notes:

   HIGH ART

   CAST: Ally Sheedy (Lucy Berliner), Radha Mitchell (Syd),
Patricia Clarkson (Greta), Gabriel Mann (James) and Anh Duong
(Dominique).  &QL;

   Written and directed by Lisa Cholodenko; director of
photography, Tami Reiker; edited by Amy E. Duddleston; music by
Shudder to Think; production designer, Bernhard Blythe; produced by
Dolly Hall, Jeff Levy-Hinte and Susan A. Stover; released by
October Films.

   Running time: 96 minutes.

   Rating: ``High Art'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying
parent or adult guardian). It includes frank talk and intense
sexual situations that don't involve much actual nudity.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0184 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:56 ',
			header: '
A5024 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-AIR-FILM-REVIEW-NYT &LR;      06-11 0745
',
			slug: ' BC-AIR-FILM-REVIEW-NYT ',
			headline: '
`UN AIR DE FAMILLE': ASTUTE, FILMED PLAY ABOUT FAMILY TENSIONS
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Prosperous Philippe (Wladimir Yordanoff) arrives at
his family's modest little restaurant fresh from a television
appearance about which he has been nervous. So he fishes for
compliments in the shark-infested waters of a family gathering.
``It's a stupid detail, but you stuttered at one point,'' points
out Betty (Agnes Jaoui), his rebellious and outspoken sister. Then
Philippe's domineering mother (Claire Maurier) and dim, dainty wife
(Catherine Frot) voice their unhelpful opinions about Philippe's
necktie.

   This is the not-so-welcoming atmosphere in which the astute
French hit ``Un Air de Famille'' unfolds. In the wishfully jolly
atmosphere of a birthday party, the film brings together an awkward
group of relatives and lets the squabbles begin. Set in nearly real
time on a single evening and shot in enveloping Cinemascope despite
its talky style, the film begins on a humorous note and goes on to
find some universal truths in its family tensions. Of course, this
group encounter winds up leveling everyone in sight.

   As directed by the talented Cedric Klapisch, whose ``When the
Cat's Away'' revealed a similar gift for wry observation, ``Un Air
de Famille'' (or ``Family Resemblances'') has an interesting
history. It began as a play written by two of the actors here, Ms.
Jaoui and Jean-Pierre Bacri. (He plays Henri, the glum brother who
runs the restaurant and was never his mother's favorite child.)

   The play had a substantial run with the same actors who are seen
here, which is why they work so artfully as an ensemble and so
evidently know their characters inside out. The film won acting
Cesars for Ms. Frot and Jean-Pierre Darroussin (as the
self-effacing waiter who gets caught up in the family fireworks),
and for its screenplay.

   Though he has filmed the one-set play without opening it into
the world beyond the restaurant, Klapisch does an expert job of
freeing it from visual claustrophobia. And the restaurant seems all
the more spacious since the truly cramped quarters are psychic
pigeonholes that keep the characters trapped. It is gradually
revealed that the family's proper bourgeois mother, who nags
ceaselessly and invokes the French platitude ``C'est normal'' to
justify her reasoning, has favored handsome Philippe and turned him
into the least deserving of her children. Philippe curries favor in
the business world, condescends to his siblings and routinely
demeans his sweet wife, Yolande, whose birthday is being
celebrated.

   Betty's black leather jacket pretty well explains her attitude
toward Philippe and their mother. The mother, for her part, is
appalled by Betty's wardrobe, vocabulary and defiantly single
status. Thanks to her, all three of the children have had painful
difficulty in getting along with romantic partners. Betty deals
brusquely with Denis, though he clearly cares for her; Henri
scrambles to hide the fact that his wife has just left him.

   These situations intersect in ways that are ruefully droll at
first, then increasingly awkward as tensions rise. It's both funny
and awful that a mother can ascribe her son's marital troubles to
the fact that he was a late walker, for example. Klapisch carefully
manipulates the film's tone, lighting and wide-screen intimacy to
keep trouble simmering just below the surface, so that conventional
dramatic fireworks would be beside the point. It's the indirect
responses, like the joy and release that Yolande surprisingly
experiences while dancing with Denis, or the sea change in Betty
that swamps her mother, that tell the audience all it needs to
know.

   ``Un Air de Famille'':

   Directed by Cedric Klapisch; written (in French, with English
subtitles) by Agnes Jaoui, Jean-Pierre Bacri and Klapisch, based on
the play by Ms. Jaoui and Bacri; director of photography, Benoit
Delhomme; edited by Francine Sandberg; music by Philippe Eidel;
production director, Patrick Lancelot; produced by Telema, Le
Studio Canal +, France 2 Cinema, Canal + and Cofimage 7; released
by Leisure Time Features and Cinema Village Features. Running time:
107 minutes. This film is not rated.

   With: Jean-Pierre Bacri (Henri), Agnes Jaoui (Betty),
Jean-Pierre Darroussin (Denis), Catherine Frot (Yolande), Claire
Maurier (Mother) and Wladimir Yordanoff (Philippe).  &QL;

   &QL;
',
			body: '


   (ja) 
 By JANET MASLIN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Prosperous Philippe (Wladimir Yordanoff) arrives at
his family's modest little restaurant fresh from a television
appearance about which he has been nervous. So he fishes for
compliments in the shark-infested waters of a family gathering.
``It's a stupid detail, but you stuttered at one point,'' points
out Betty (Agnes Jaoui), his rebellious and outspoken sister. Then
Philippe's domineering mother (Claire Maurier) and dim, dainty wife
(Catherine Frot) voice their unhelpful opinions about Philippe's
necktie.

   This is the not-so-welcoming atmosphere in which the astute
French hit ``Un Air de Famille'' unfolds. In the wishfully jolly
atmosphere of a birthday party, the film brings together an awkward
group of relatives and lets the squabbles begin. Set in nearly real
time on a single evening and shot in enveloping Cinemascope despite
its talky style, the film begins on a humorous note and goes on to
find some universal truths in its family tensions. Of course, this
group encounter winds up leveling everyone in sight.

   As directed by the talented Cedric Klapisch, whose ``When the
Cat's Away'' revealed a similar gift for wry observation, ``Un Air
de Famille'' (or ``Family Resemblances'') has an interesting
history. It began as a play written by two of the actors here, Ms.
Jaoui and Jean-Pierre Bacri. (He plays Henri, the glum brother who
runs the restaurant and was never his mother's favorite child.)

   The play had a substantial run with the same actors who are seen
here, which is why they work so artfully as an ensemble and so
evidently know their characters inside out. The film won acting
Cesars for Ms. Frot and Jean-Pierre Darroussin (as the
self-effacing waiter who gets caught up in the family fireworks),
and for its screenplay.

   Though he has filmed the one-set play without opening it into
the world beyond the restaurant, Klapisch does an expert job of
freeing it from visual claustrophobia. And the restaurant seems all
the more spacious since the truly cramped quarters are psychic
pigeonholes that keep the characters trapped. It is gradually
revealed that the family's proper bourgeois mother, who nags
ceaselessly and invokes the French platitude ``C'est normal'' to
justify her reasoning, has favored handsome Philippe and turned him
into the least deserving of her children. Philippe curries favor in
the business world, condescends to his siblings and routinely
demeans his sweet wife, Yolande, whose birthday is being
celebrated.

   Betty's black leather jacket pretty well explains her attitude
toward Philippe and their mother. The mother, for her part, is
appalled by Betty's wardrobe, vocabulary and defiantly single
status. Thanks to her, all three of the children have had painful
difficulty in getting along with romantic partners. Betty deals
brusquely with Denis, though he clearly cares for her; Henri
scrambles to hide the fact that his wife has just left him.

   These situations intersect in ways that are ruefully droll at
first, then increasingly awkward as tensions rise. It's both funny
and awful that a mother can ascribe her son's marital troubles to
the fact that he was a late walker, for example. Klapisch carefully
manipulates the film's tone, lighting and wide-screen intimacy to
keep trouble simmering just below the surface, so that conventional
dramatic fireworks would be beside the point. It's the indirect
responses, like the joy and release that Yolande surprisingly
experiences while dancing with Denis, or the sea change in Betty
that swamps her mother, that tell the audience all it needs to
know.

   ``Un Air de Famille'':

   Directed by Cedric Klapisch; written (in French, with English
subtitles) by Agnes Jaoui, Jean-Pierre Bacri and Klapisch, based on
the play by Ms. Jaoui and Bacri; director of photography, Benoit
Delhomme; edited by Francine Sandberg; music by Philippe Eidel;
production director, Patrick Lancelot; produced by Telema, Le
Studio Canal +, France 2 Cinema, Canal + and Cofimage 7; released
by Leisure Time Features and Cinema Village Features. Running time:
107 minutes. This film is not rated.

   With: Jean-Pierre Bacri (Henri), Agnes Jaoui (Betty),
Jean-Pierre Darroussin (Denis), Catherine Frot (Yolande), Claire
Maurier (Mother) and Wladimir Yordanoff (Philippe).  &QL;

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0185 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:57 ',
			header: '
A5026 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HOMEVIDEO-NYT &LR;      06-11 1292
',
			slug: ' BC-HOMEVIDEO-NYT ',
			headline: '
HOMEVIDEO NOTES AND NEWS  
 (JT) 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; Maneuvers At the Games &LR;

   With their huge capacity for information, digital video disks
are being put to all sorts of uses. For example, this week DVD is
trying to turn the Olympics into a kind of game you play at home.

   On a series of four disks designed for use with DVD players and
computers with DVD-ROM drives, Panasonic Interactive Media replays
the 1998 winter games in Nagano, Japan. Viewers who sat through
CBS's exhaustive coverage in February may not immediately see the
value of dealing with it all over again, especially the
extracurricular activities that often left one wondering when, if
ever, the actual competition would take place.

   But with DVD one has the option of dodging extraneous elements
and instantly getting down to cases on the slope or rink. The disks
could almost be called a video game.

   Panasonic filmed much of the coverage CBS presented in Nagano.
One viewer's meat being another's poison, the disks present
highlights of events, with only the figure-skating competition
presented in its entirety. There is also a full sampling of
exhibitions, interviews, profiles and the like (blessedly minus
commercials). In addition, a raft of information and statistics on
all the results and competitors are available on displays that are
designed like trading cards.

   If one were to play the disks like a video game, the object
would be to avoid tedium with fast maneuvering at the selection
menu. At the bottom of the screen, preview windows show coverage
that lies ahead and different camera angles that can be selected by
the viewer. One can jump to related trading cards and, in fact,
jump all over since the disks have chapter stops that break the
coverage into units and enable viewers to go straight to what they
want without having to sit through the rest.

   For instance, if the life story of a 24-year-old speed skater
doesn't turn out to be all that interesting, consult the menu of
options and immediately jump to something else. Also, the viewer
can leap in and out of events at random.

   ``Make switches like you were in a broadcast van,'' said Peter
Rosenthal, a Panasonic spokesman. The disks are $21.95 each or
$59.95 for the set. &QL;

   &UR; `Titanic' on DVD? &LR;

   Mention of DVD was nowhere to be found in the announcement by
Paramount on Monday that ``Titanic'' would be released on
videocassette on Sept. 1. The appearance of what most distributors
expect will be the best-selling video ever rates as news, of
course, but backers of DVD would like to see ``Titanic'' released
on disk on the same day as the video tape because it would signal
that DVD is beginning to come of age as a legitimate format.

   The studio has no comment on when ``Titanic'' might appear on
disk, or on which kind of disk: the conventional kind that is on
the market now or a new and incompatible type of disk, called Divx,
that was introduced in test markets this week. When the time for
DVD comes, Paramount could go with either kind of disk.
Distributors hope and expect it will be both.

   &UR; New Releases &LR;

   The Wings of the Dove

   Adrift without money in Iain Softley's adaptation of Henry
James' 1902 novel, the beautiful high-spirited Kate Croy (Helena
Bonham Carter) hatches a plan involving her lover, Merton Densher
(Linus Roache), and her dying friend Millie Theale (Alison
Elliott), an American heiress. Noticing how attracted Millie is to
Densher, Kate promotes romance between the two in the hopes that a
marriage will make a rich widower of him. He goes along with the
idea, but develops doubts as he becomes genuinely fond of Millie,
which in turn raises misgivings in the mind of the cool,
calculating but ultimately decent Kate. In traversing such complex
psychological topography, Softley's film, Stephen Holden wrote in
The New York Times, ``succeeds where virtually every other film
translation of a James novel has stumbled.''

   _1997. Miramax. $103.91. Laser disk, $39.99. 101 minutes. Closed
captioned. R. Release date: Tuesday.

   The Tango Lesson

   Following her rarefied ``Orlando,'' Sally Potter takes center
stage herself as a lithe beginning dancer who is captivated by the
tango scene and then falls in love with her instructor, Pablo
Veron, a tango star by way of Argentina. So far so good (or
passable), but then, in a fit of self-indulgence, Ms. Potter veers
off into side stories about another of her film projects and
Hollywood's crass rejection of same. ``Proud independence here goes
only so far, and verges on tiresome arrogance too much of the
time'' (Janet Maslin).

   _1997. Columbia Tri-Star. $99.36. Laser disk, $34.95. 101
minutes. Closed captioned. R.

   Spice World

   Nominally in this film the Spice Girls get trapped in one
slap-happy mini-mess after another trying to get their zany selves
across London in their opulently outfitted bus in time for a
concert at Royal Albert Hall. Small chance of that with all the
opportunists delaying their every move with offers and demands on
their time. That's about it, but ``if the Spice Girls don't
precisely act here, they do give extroversion a good name''
(Maslin).

   _1998. Columbia Tri-Star. $22.95. Laser disk, $34.98. 93
minutes. Closed  &QL; 
captioned. PG. Release date: Tuesday.

   Fallen

   On the eve of his execution, a scarily intense serial killer
(Elias Koteas) uses a weird language that sounds like Dutch but
isn't, to threaten John Hobbes (Denzel Washington), the detective
who arrested him. Then, moments before he dies, he sings a nastily
meaningful rendition of ``Time Is on My Side.'' Sure enough,
thereafter, about everybody Hobbes runs into is singing ``Time Is
on My Side,'' and later different people commit the same kind of
murder. With the warmly engaging presence of Washington to keep it
credible, Gregory Hoblit's cult thriller presents ``a stylish if
seriously far-fetched nightmare'' (Maslin).

   _1998. Warner. $105.77. Laser disk, $39.98. 124 minutes. Closed
captioned. R.

   &UR; Other new titles of interest, some of which may have had a
theater release at one time or appeared on television. &LR;

   LES GRANDES MANOEUVRES and CONSEIL DE FAMILLE. From Water Bearer
come two French films of opposite stripe. Considered a minor
classic, Rene Clair's ``Grandes Manoeuvres'' (1955, $29.95, 106
minutes, French with English subtitles) stars Gerard Philipe as a
soldier who is certain he can seduce any woman in town before
leaving on maneuvers (and backs that up, though at a price).

   Then, how about a Costa-Gavras comedy? In ``Conseil de Famille''
(1986, 111 minutes, French with English subtitles), the father of a
safe-cracking family (the French rock star Johnny Halliday) returns
from prison to resume the business (and provide the basis for the
Sidney Lumet film ``Family Business'').

   THE MIGHTY KONG. The Merian C. Cooper-Ernest B. Schoedsack crowd
heads back to Skull Island to track down that big monkey god and
make a spectacular feature film. This time, though, the adventure
is an animation, with Dudley Moore providing the voice of the
driven filmmaker Carl Denham. Everybody to the Empire State
Building. 1998. Warner. $19.94. 78 minutes. Release date: Tuesday.

   SAINT CLARA. In an apocalyptic Israel of 1999, a purple-eyed
clairvoyant teen-ager (Lucy Dubinchik) will lose her powers of
prophecy the first time she falls in love, but not before she
wreaks some hallucinatory havoc at the Golda Meir School. Ari
Folman and Ori Sivan's film is based on the novel by the Czech
dissident Pavel Kohout. 1996. Kino. $79.95. 85 minutes. Hebrew with
English subtitles.

   &QL;
',
			body: '


   By PETER M. NICHOLS    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; Maneuvers At the Games &LR;

   With their huge capacity for information, digital video disks
are being put to all sorts of uses. For example, this week DVD is
trying to turn the Olympics into a kind of game you play at home.

   On a series of four disks designed for use with DVD players and
computers with DVD-ROM drives, Panasonic Interactive Media replays
the 1998 winter games in Nagano, Japan. Viewers who sat through
CBS's exhaustive coverage in February may not immediately see the
value of dealing with it all over again, especially the
extracurricular activities that often left one wondering when, if
ever, the actual competition would take place.

   But with DVD one has the option of dodging extraneous elements
and instantly getting down to cases on the slope or rink. The disks
could almost be called a video game.

   Panasonic filmed much of the coverage CBS presented in Nagano.
One viewer's meat being another's poison, the disks present
highlights of events, with only the figure-skating competition
presented in its entirety. There is also a full sampling of
exhibitions, interviews, profiles and the like (blessedly minus
commercials). In addition, a raft of information and statistics on
all the results and competitors are available on displays that are
designed like trading cards.

   If one were to play the disks like a video game, the object
would be to avoid tedium with fast maneuvering at the selection
menu. At the bottom of the screen, preview windows show coverage
that lies ahead and different camera angles that can be selected by
the viewer. One can jump to related trading cards and, in fact,
jump all over since the disks have chapter stops that break the
coverage into units and enable viewers to go straight to what they
want without having to sit through the rest.

   For instance, if the life story of a 24-year-old speed skater
doesn't turn out to be all that interesting, consult the menu of
options and immediately jump to something else. Also, the viewer
can leap in and out of events at random.

   ``Make switches like you were in a broadcast van,'' said Peter
Rosenthal, a Panasonic spokesman. The disks are $21.95 each or
$59.95 for the set. &QL;

   &UR; `Titanic' on DVD? &LR;

   Mention of DVD was nowhere to be found in the announcement by
Paramount on Monday that ``Titanic'' would be released on
videocassette on Sept. 1. The appearance of what most distributors
expect will be the best-selling video ever rates as news, of
course, but backers of DVD would like to see ``Titanic'' released
on disk on the same day as the video tape because it would signal
that DVD is beginning to come of age as a legitimate format.

   The studio has no comment on when ``Titanic'' might appear on
disk, or on which kind of disk: the conventional kind that is on
the market now or a new and incompatible type of disk, called Divx,
that was introduced in test markets this week. When the time for
DVD comes, Paramount could go with either kind of disk.
Distributors hope and expect it will be both.

   &UR; New Releases &LR;

   The Wings of the Dove

   Adrift without money in Iain Softley's adaptation of Henry
James' 1902 novel, the beautiful high-spirited Kate Croy (Helena
Bonham Carter) hatches a plan involving her lover, Merton Densher
(Linus Roache), and her dying friend Millie Theale (Alison
Elliott), an American heiress. Noticing how attracted Millie is to
Densher, Kate promotes romance between the two in the hopes that a
marriage will make a rich widower of him. He goes along with the
idea, but develops doubts as he becomes genuinely fond of Millie,
which in turn raises misgivings in the mind of the cool,
calculating but ultimately decent Kate. In traversing such complex
psychological topography, Softley's film, Stephen Holden wrote in
The New York Times, ``succeeds where virtually every other film
translation of a James novel has stumbled.''

   _1997. Miramax. $103.91. Laser disk, $39.99. 101 minutes. Closed
captioned. R. Release date: Tuesday.

   The Tango Lesson

   Following her rarefied ``Orlando,'' Sally Potter takes center
stage herself as a lithe beginning dancer who is captivated by the
tango scene and then falls in love with her instructor, Pablo
Veron, a tango star by way of Argentina. So far so good (or
passable), but then, in a fit of self-indulgence, Ms. Potter veers
off into side stories about another of her film projects and
Hollywood's crass rejection of same. ``Proud independence here goes
only so far, and verges on tiresome arrogance too much of the
time'' (Janet Maslin).

   _1997. Columbia Tri-Star. $99.36. Laser disk, $34.95. 101
minutes. Closed captioned. R.

   Spice World

   Nominally in this film the Spice Girls get trapped in one
slap-happy mini-mess after another trying to get their zany selves
across London in their opulently outfitted bus in time for a
concert at Royal Albert Hall. Small chance of that with all the
opportunists delaying their every move with offers and demands on
their time. That's about it, but ``if the Spice Girls don't
precisely act here, they do give extroversion a good name''
(Maslin).

   _1998. Columbia Tri-Star. $22.95. Laser disk, $34.98. 93
minutes. Closed  &QL; 
captioned. PG. Release date: Tuesday.

   Fallen

   On the eve of his execution, a scarily intense serial killer
(Elias Koteas) uses a weird language that sounds like Dutch but
isn't, to threaten John Hobbes (Denzel Washington), the detective
who arrested him. Then, moments before he dies, he sings a nastily
meaningful rendition of ``Time Is on My Side.'' Sure enough,
thereafter, about everybody Hobbes runs into is singing ``Time Is
on My Side,'' and later different people commit the same kind of
murder. With the warmly engaging presence of Washington to keep it
credible, Gregory Hoblit's cult thriller presents ``a stylish if
seriously far-fetched nightmare'' (Maslin).

   _1998. Warner. $105.77. Laser disk, $39.98. 124 minutes. Closed
captioned. R.

   &UR; Other new titles of interest, some of which may have had a
theater release at one time or appeared on television. &LR;

   LES GRANDES MANOEUVRES and CONSEIL DE FAMILLE. From Water Bearer
come two French films of opposite stripe. Considered a minor
classic, Rene Clair's ``Grandes Manoeuvres'' (1955, $29.95, 106
minutes, French with English subtitles) stars Gerard Philipe as a
soldier who is certain he can seduce any woman in town before
leaving on maneuvers (and backs that up, though at a price).

   Then, how about a Costa-Gavras comedy? In ``Conseil de Famille''
(1986, 111 minutes, French with English subtitles), the father of a
safe-cracking family (the French rock star Johnny Halliday) returns
from prison to resume the business (and provide the basis for the
Sidney Lumet film ``Family Business'').

   THE MIGHTY KONG. The Merian C. Cooper-Ernest B. Schoedsack crowd
heads back to Skull Island to track down that big monkey god and
make a spectacular feature film. This time, though, the adventure
is an animation, with Dudley Moore providing the voice of the
driven filmmaker Carl Denham. Everybody to the Empire State
Building. 1998. Warner. $19.94. 78 minutes. Release date: Tuesday.

   SAINT CLARA. In an apocalyptic Israel of 1999, a purple-eyed
clairvoyant teen-ager (Lucy Dubinchik) will lose her powers of
prophecy the first time she falls in love, but not before she
wreaks some hallucinatory havoc at the Golda Meir School. Ari
Folman and Ori Sivan's film is based on the novel by the Czech
dissident Pavel Kohout. 1996. Kino. $79.95. 85 minutes. Hebrew with
English subtitles.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0186 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 16:58 ',
			header: '
A5027 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GIRLS-FILM-REVIEW-NYT     06-11 0811
',
			slug: ' BC-GIRLS-FILM-REVIEW-NYT ',
			headline: '
`THE LAND GIRLS': ROMANCE AND GRIT ON A WARTIME ENGLISH FARM 
',
			trailer: '
   Movies that remember the home front during World War II _
especially those made in England _ exert an almost irresistible
nostalgic tug.

   The image of the British populace, bravely sacrificing together
while under siege from Hitler's bombs, conjures the nobler side of
human nature. And the romances that bloom between soldiers facing
death and women tending the home fires acquire a star-crossed,
now-or-never edge of desperate longing. It takes a war to remind us
just how much fonder the heart can grow when it beats for an absent
lover.

   David Leland's film ``The Land Girls,'' adapted from a novel by
Angela Huth, reworks these familiar themes with just enough
restraint to keep from teetering overboard into bilgy
sentimentality. The movie pays specific homage to the Women's Land
Army, the legion of young women dispatched all over England to
assume jobs abandoned by men summoned to fight, and who, if the
movie is at all accurate, threw themselves into their work with
intense dedication and a minimum of complaint.

   ``The Land Girls'' interweaves the stories of Stella (Catherine
McCormack), Ag (Rachel Weisz) and Prue (Anna Friel), three young
women from the city, who share cramped attic quarters on a farm in
rural Dorset and spend their days milking cows, pitching hay and
plowing fields.

   The movie's early scenes, which include a brief lesson in
cow-milking, show how grungy and exhausting farm work really is. As
much as the film goes on to explore their romantic peccadilloes, it
never lets you forget how hard these women are working.

   The farm's owners, the Lawrences (Tom Georgeson and Maureen
O'Brien), are a weatherbeaten couple whose son Joe (Steven
Mackintosh) is itching to be a fighter pilot. Mrs. Lawrence is a
salt-of-the-earth type who overworks herself to the point of
collapse. Her gruff, flinty husband is initially contemptuous of
his guests but is eventually won over. But he is not without a
heart. In one of the film's more touching moments, he bitterly
contemplates a glistening meadow that he has been instructed to
turn into farmland.

   The volatile son, Joe, whom Mackintosh plays with a bracing
mixture of brash country-boy machismo and disarming sweetness, is
the movie's most compelling character. Before the movie is over,
each of the women has had her turn with him, but the flavor of each
fling is different.

   The working-class Prue, who pretends to be much more blase than
she really is, just wants a roll in the hay. Ag, a nerdy academic,
is persuaded by Prue that she must lose her virginity but has to
wheedle Joe into obliging her. Stella, who is engaged to an
exceedingly proper, upper-class naval officer (Paul Bettany),
reluctantly falls in love with Joe, whose fiancee, a local girl,
remains unaware of his dalliances.

   ``The Land Girls,'' for all its exploration of wartime
relationships, is not a character study. It doesn't begin to
examine the women's class differences and gives only the most
cursory attention to their backgrounds. Even Stella, through whose
eyes much of the story unfolds, doesn't come into sharp focus.
Attractive well-mannered and too highly principled for her own
good, she is played by Ms. McCormack as a generic heroine with an
edge of contentiousness and superiority.

   The movie is ultimately more passionate about its characters'
place in history than about their individual lives, which take
fairly predictable if not always happy turns. In the end, all three
women blend together as an idealized everywoman lightly sketched on
a larger historical canvas.

   The film's most evocative historical set piece shows a parade
and air show at which a newly built Spitfire makes its maiden
flight. The movie is unequivocal about the nobility of this moment.
The shared sacrifice and hard labor have all been worth it. As the
aircraft soars and dips across the rural English landscape, it is
the very embodiment of a glorious winged victory soon to come.

   Production notes:

   THE LAND GIRLS

   CAST: Catherine McCormack (Stella), Rachel Weisz (Ag), Anna
Friel (Prue), Steven Mackintosh (Joe Lawrence), Tom Georgeson
(Lawrence) and Maureen O'Brien (Mrs. Lawrence).

   Directed by David Leland; written by Keith Dewhurst and Leland,
based on the novel by Angela Huth; director of photography, Henry
Braham; edited by Nick Moore; music by Brian Lock; production
designer, Caroline Amies; produced by Simon Relph; released by
Gramercy Pictures.

   Running time: 112 minutes.

   Rating: ``The Land Girls'' is rated R (Under 17 requires
accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has sexual situations
and mild violence.
',
			body: '


   (editors: production notes at end of review)  
 (bl)  
 By STEPHEN HOLDEN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   Movies that remember the home front during World War II _
especially those made in England _ exert an almost irresistible
nostalgic tug.

   The image of the British populace, bravely sacrificing together
while under siege from Hitler's bombs, conjures the nobler side of
human nature. And the romances that bloom between soldiers facing
death and women tending the home fires acquire a star-crossed,
now-or-never edge of desperate longing. It takes a war to remind us
just how much fonder the heart can grow when it beats for an absent
lover.

   David Leland's film ``The Land Girls,'' adapted from a novel by
Angela Huth, reworks these familiar themes with just enough
restraint to keep from teetering overboard into bilgy
sentimentality. The movie pays specific homage to the Women's Land
Army, the legion of young women dispatched all over England to
assume jobs abandoned by men summoned to fight, and who, if the
movie is at all accurate, threw themselves into their work with
intense dedication and a minimum of complaint.

   ``The Land Girls'' interweaves the stories of Stella (Catherine
McCormack), Ag (Rachel Weisz) and Prue (Anna Friel), three young
women from the city, who share cramped attic quarters on a farm in
rural Dorset and spend their days milking cows, pitching hay and
plowing fields.

   The movie's early scenes, which include a brief lesson in
cow-milking, show how grungy and exhausting farm work really is. As
much as the film goes on to explore their romantic peccadilloes, it
never lets you forget how hard these women are working.

   The farm's owners, the Lawrences (Tom Georgeson and Maureen
O'Brien), are a weatherbeaten couple whose son Joe (Steven
Mackintosh) is itching to be a fighter pilot. Mrs. Lawrence is a
salt-of-the-earth type who overworks herself to the point of
collapse. Her gruff, flinty husband is initially contemptuous of
his guests but is eventually won over. But he is not without a
heart. In one of the film's more touching moments, he bitterly
contemplates a glistening meadow that he has been instructed to
turn into farmland.

   The volatile son, Joe, whom Mackintosh plays with a bracing
mixture of brash country-boy machismo and disarming sweetness, is
the movie's most compelling character. Before the movie is over,
each of the women has had her turn with him, but the flavor of each
fling is different.

   The working-class Prue, who pretends to be much more blase than
she really is, just wants a roll in the hay. Ag, a nerdy academic,
is persuaded by Prue that she must lose her virginity but has to
wheedle Joe into obliging her. Stella, who is engaged to an
exceedingly proper, upper-class naval officer (Paul Bettany),
reluctantly falls in love with Joe, whose fiancee, a local girl,
remains unaware of his dalliances.

   ``The Land Girls,'' for all its exploration of wartime
relationships, is not a character study. It doesn't begin to
examine the women's class differences and gives only the most
cursory attention to their backgrounds. Even Stella, through whose
eyes much of the story unfolds, doesn't come into sharp focus.
Attractive well-mannered and too highly principled for her own
good, she is played by Ms. McCormack as a generic heroine with an
edge of contentiousness and superiority.

   The movie is ultimately more passionate about its characters'
place in history than about their individual lives, which take
fairly predictable if not always happy turns. In the end, all three
women blend together as an idealized everywoman lightly sketched on
a larger historical canvas.

   The film's most evocative historical set piece shows a parade
and air show at which a newly built Spitfire makes its maiden
flight. The movie is unequivocal about the nobility of this moment.
The shared sacrifice and hard labor have all been worth it. As the
aircraft soars and dips across the rural English landscape, it is
the very embodiment of a glorious winged victory soon to come.

   Production notes:

   THE LAND GIRLS

   CAST: Catherine McCormack (Stella), Rachel Weisz (Ag), Anna
Friel (Prue), Steven Mackintosh (Joe Lawrence), Tom Georgeson
(Lawrence) and Maureen O'Brien (Mrs. Lawrence).

   Directed by David Leland; written by Keith Dewhurst and Leland,
based on the novel by Angela Huth; director of photography, Henry
Braham; edited by Nick Moore; music by Brian Lock; production
designer, Caroline Amies; produced by Simon Relph; released by
Gramercy Pictures.

   Running time: 112 minutes.

   Rating: ``The Land Girls'' is rated R (Under 17 requires
accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has sexual situations
and mild violence.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0187 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:14 ',
			header: '
A5087 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FEATURE-BUDGET-ART-BO     06-11 0430
',
			slug: ' BC-FEATURE-BUDGET-ART-BOS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   The Boston Globe plans to move the following FEATURE stories for
use by NYTimes News Service clients.

   &UR;  &LR; For questions about stories, contact  &UR; Al Simons  &LR; at the Boston
Globe,  &UR; 617-929-2597. &LR;  For individual purchase of graphics or
photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.

   All stories will bear the BOS designator.

   &UR; INTERNATIONAL (i) &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; RUSSIA-JOURNALIST (Moscow) _ A muckraking journalist who
raised hackles of provincial leader is found murdered. By David
Filipov.

   NIGERIA-ABACHA (Undated) _ Nigerians living in Boston area react
to death of military ruler. By Zachary Dowdy.

   PALESTINIAN-REFUGEE (Gaza City) _ Three generations of a
Palestinian family can only dream of home. By Charles M. Sennott.

   &UR;  &LR;

   &UR; NATIONAL (a) &LR;

   CABLE-COMPETITION (Somerville, Mass.) _ Cable competition comes
to Somerville and Time-Warner, the established operator, cuts its
rates. By Bruce Mohl.

   &UR; COMMENTARY (k) &LR;

   JACOBY-COLUMN (Undated) _ Massachusetts taxpayers are in danger
of losing a good friend. By Jeff Jacoby.

   BARNICLE-COLUMN (Undated) _ This is not a column, but a
reflection about what really matters in life. By Mike Barnicle.

   &UR; LIFESTYLE &LR;   &UR; (l) &LR;

   DONNA-OPTIMIST (Undated) _ Five years after the death of Reggie
Lewis, Donna Harris-Lewis still grieves, raises two children and
remains optimistic. By Irene Sege.

   GARDEN-COLUMN (Undated) _ An uninvited guest becomes the star of
the garden. By Carol Stocker.

   CHILDCARE-COLUMN (Undated) _ Crying is normal for babies, and it
doesn't mean that anything is wrong. By Barbara Meltz.

   FAMILY-COLUMN (Undated) _ The annual invasion of wildlife into
the home begins in spring. By Linda Weltner.

   HOME-PROJECT (Undated) _ PVC fencing still doesn't have a track
record. By Peter Hotton.

   WHITE-COLUMN (Undated) _ The single life for women nowadays is a
matter of choice, not a mark of failure. By Diane White.

   &UR; ENTERTAINMENT/ARTS (e) &LR;

   MEDIA-NOTES (Undated) _ Vanity Fair drives a hard bargain in
making available the Monica Lewinsky photo spread. By Mark
Jurkowitz.

   BOOK-INSECTS (Undated) -- Russian writes an allegory on life in
post-Soviet Russia. By Richard Dyer.

   &UR; COMPUTERS (a) &LR;

   COMPUTERS-COLUMN (Undated) _ A little box called a surge
suppressor can save a bundle. By Hiawatha Bray.

   &UR; The Boston Globe &LR;  &QC;
',
			body: '

  
 ART ADV.: Photos with ??-?? are being transmitted to NYT Photo
Service subscribers.  
 For Immediate Release  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   The Boston Globe plans to move the following FEATURE stories for
use by NYTimes News Service clients.

   &UR;  &LR; For questions about stories, contact  &UR; Al Simons  &LR; at the Boston
Globe,  &UR; 617-929-2597. &LR;  For individual purchase of graphics or
photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.

   All stories will bear the BOS designator.

   &UR; INTERNATIONAL (i) &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; RUSSIA-JOURNALIST (Moscow) _ A muckraking journalist who
raised hackles of provincial leader is found murdered. By David
Filipov.

   NIGERIA-ABACHA (Undated) _ Nigerians living in Boston area react
to death of military ruler. By Zachary Dowdy.

   PALESTINIAN-REFUGEE (Gaza City) _ Three generations of a
Palestinian family can only dream of home. By Charles M. Sennott.

   &UR;  &LR;

   &UR; NATIONAL (a) &LR;

   CABLE-COMPETITION (Somerville, Mass.) _ Cable competition comes
to Somerville and Time-Warner, the established operator, cuts its
rates. By Bruce Mohl.

   &UR; COMMENTARY (k) &LR;

   JACOBY-COLUMN (Undated) _ Massachusetts taxpayers are in danger
of losing a good friend. By Jeff Jacoby.

   BARNICLE-COLUMN (Undated) _ This is not a column, but a
reflection about what really matters in life. By Mike Barnicle.

   &UR; LIFESTYLE &LR;   &UR; (l) &LR;

   DONNA-OPTIMIST (Undated) _ Five years after the death of Reggie
Lewis, Donna Harris-Lewis still grieves, raises two children and
remains optimistic. By Irene Sege.

   GARDEN-COLUMN (Undated) _ An uninvited guest becomes the star of
the garden. By Carol Stocker.

   CHILDCARE-COLUMN (Undated) _ Crying is normal for babies, and it
doesn't mean that anything is wrong. By Barbara Meltz.

   FAMILY-COLUMN (Undated) _ The annual invasion of wildlife into
the home begins in spring. By Linda Weltner.

   HOME-PROJECT (Undated) _ PVC fencing still doesn't have a track
record. By Peter Hotton.

   WHITE-COLUMN (Undated) _ The single life for women nowadays is a
matter of choice, not a mark of failure. By Diane White.

   &UR; ENTERTAINMENT/ARTS (e) &LR;

   MEDIA-NOTES (Undated) _ Vanity Fair drives a hard bargain in
making available the Monica Lewinsky photo spread. By Mark
Jurkowitz.

   BOOK-INSECTS (Undated) -- Russian writes an allegory on life in
post-Soviet Russia. By Richard Dyer.

   &UR; COMPUTERS (a) &LR;

   COMPUTERS-COLUMN (Undated) _ A little box called a surge
suppressor can save a bundle. By Hiawatha Bray.

   &UR; The Boston Globe &LR;  &QC;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0188 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:14 ',
			header: '
A5090 &Cx1f; ttx-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TEST-TEX     06-11 0013
',
			slug: ' BC-TEST-TEX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   EDITORS:

   This is a test from the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   EDITORS:

   This is a test from the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0189 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:19 ',
			header: '
A5101 &Cx1f; tdt-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FEATURE-BUDGET-ART-BO     06-11 0432
',
			slug: ' BC-FEATURE-BUDGET-ART-BOS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   The Boston Globe plans to move the following FEATURE stories for
use by NYTimes News Service clients.

   &UR;  &LR; For questions about stories, contact  &UR; Al Simons  &LR; at the Boston
Globe,  &UR; 617-929-2597. &LR;  For individual purchase of graphics or
photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.

   All stories will bear the BOS designator.

   &UR; INTERNATIONAL (i) &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; RUSSIA-JOURNALIST (Moscow) _ A muckraking journalist who
raised hackles of provincial leader is found murdered. By David
Filipov.

   NIGERIA-ABACHA (Undated) _ Nigerians living in Boston area react
to death of military ruler. By Zachary Dowdy.

   PALESTINIAN-REFUGEE (Gaza City) _ Three generations of a
Palestinian family can only dream of home. By Charles M. Sennott.

   &UR;  &LR;

   &UR; NATIONAL (a) &LR;

   CABLE-COMPETITION (Somerville, Mass.) _ Cable competition comes
to Somerville and Time-Warner, the established operator, cuts its
rates. By Bruce Mohl.

   &UR; COMMENTARY (k) &LR;

   JACOBY-COLUMN (Undated) _ Massachusetts taxpayers are in danger
of losing a good friend. By Jeff Jacoby.

   BARNICLE-COLUMN (Undated) _ This is not a column, but a
reflection about what really matters in life. By Mike Barnicle.

   &UR; LIFESTYLE &LR;   &UR; (l) &LR;

   DONNA-OPTIMIST (Undated) _ Five years after the death of Reggie
Lewis, Donna Harris-Lewis still grieves, raises two children and
remains optimistic. By Irene Sege.

   GARDEN-COLUMN (Undated) _ An uninvited guest becomes the star of
the garden. By Carol Stocker.

   CHILDCARE-COLUMN (Undated) _ Crying is normal for babies, and it
doesn't mean that anything is wrong. By Barbara Meltz.

   FAMILY-COLUMN (Undated) _ The annual invasion of wildlife into
the home begins in spring. By Linda Weltner.

   HOME-PROJECT (Undated) _ PVC fencing still doesn't have a track
record. By Peter Hotton.

   WHITE-COLUMN (Undated) _ The single life for women nowadays is a
matter of choice, not a mark of failure. By Diane White.

   &UR; ENTERTAINMENT/ARTS (e) &LR;

   MEDIA-NOTES (Undated) _ Vanity Fair drives a hard bargain in
making available the Monica Lewinsky photo spread. By Mark
Jurkowitz.

   BOOK-INSECTS (Undated) -- Russian writes an allegory on life in
post-Soviet Russia. By Richard Dyer.

   &UR; COMPUTERS (a) &LR;

   COMPUTERS-COLUMN (Undated) _ A little box called a surge
suppressor can save a bundle. By Hiawatha Bray.

   &UR; The Boston Globe &LR;  &QC;
',
			body: '

  
 ART ADV.: Photos with DONNA-OPTIMIST are being transmitted to NYT
Photo Service subscribers.  
 For Immediate Release  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   The Boston Globe plans to move the following FEATURE stories for
use by NYTimes News Service clients.

   &UR;  &LR; For questions about stories, contact  &UR; Al Simons  &LR; at the Boston
Globe,  &UR; 617-929-2597. &LR;  For individual purchase of graphics or
photos please call 212 556-4204 or -1927.

   All stories will bear the BOS designator.

   &UR; INTERNATIONAL (i) &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; RUSSIA-JOURNALIST (Moscow) _ A muckraking journalist who
raised hackles of provincial leader is found murdered. By David
Filipov.

   NIGERIA-ABACHA (Undated) _ Nigerians living in Boston area react
to death of military ruler. By Zachary Dowdy.

   PALESTINIAN-REFUGEE (Gaza City) _ Three generations of a
Palestinian family can only dream of home. By Charles M. Sennott.

   &UR;  &LR;

   &UR; NATIONAL (a) &LR;

   CABLE-COMPETITION (Somerville, Mass.) _ Cable competition comes
to Somerville and Time-Warner, the established operator, cuts its
rates. By Bruce Mohl.

   &UR; COMMENTARY (k) &LR;

   JACOBY-COLUMN (Undated) _ Massachusetts taxpayers are in danger
of losing a good friend. By Jeff Jacoby.

   BARNICLE-COLUMN (Undated) _ This is not a column, but a
reflection about what really matters in life. By Mike Barnicle.

   &UR; LIFESTYLE &LR;   &UR; (l) &LR;

   DONNA-OPTIMIST (Undated) _ Five years after the death of Reggie
Lewis, Donna Harris-Lewis still grieves, raises two children and
remains optimistic. By Irene Sege.

   GARDEN-COLUMN (Undated) _ An uninvited guest becomes the star of
the garden. By Carol Stocker.

   CHILDCARE-COLUMN (Undated) _ Crying is normal for babies, and it
doesn't mean that anything is wrong. By Barbara Meltz.

   FAMILY-COLUMN (Undated) _ The annual invasion of wildlife into
the home begins in spring. By Linda Weltner.

   HOME-PROJECT (Undated) _ PVC fencing still doesn't have a track
record. By Peter Hotton.

   WHITE-COLUMN (Undated) _ The single life for women nowadays is a
matter of choice, not a mark of failure. By Diane White.

   &UR; ENTERTAINMENT/ARTS (e) &LR;

   MEDIA-NOTES (Undated) _ Vanity Fair drives a hard bargain in
making available the Monica Lewinsky photo spread. By Mark
Jurkowitz.

   BOOK-INSECTS (Undated) -- Russian writes an allegory on life in
post-Soviet Russia. By Richard Dyer.

   &UR; COMPUTERS (a) &LR;

   COMPUTERS-COLUMN (Undated) _ A little box called a surge
suppressor can save a bundle. By Hiawatha Bray.

   &UR; The Boston Globe &LR;  &QC;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0190 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:22 ',
			header: '
A5108 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-KEYRATES-NYT &LR;      06-11 0168
',
			slug: ' BC-KEYRATES-NYT ',
			headline: '
KEY RATES 
',
			trailer: '
   Here are the daily key rates from The New York Times.

   -------------------Thursday----Previous day---Year Ago

   PRIME RATE ---------- 8.50 ------ 8.50 ------- 8.50

   DISCOUNT RATE ------- 5.00 ------ 5.00 ------- 5.00

   FEDERAL FUNDS(x) ---- 5.63 ------ 5.53 ------- 5.58

   3-MO. TREAS. BILLS -- 4.94 ------ 4.99 ------- 4.82

   6-MO. TREAS. BILLS -- 5.09 ------ 5.14 ------- 5.11

   10-YR. TREAS. INF(xx) 3.70 ------ 3.71 ------- 3.55

   10-YR. TREAS. NOTES - 5.44 ------ 5.50 ------- 6.48

   30-YR. TREAS. BONDS - 5.65 ------ 5.70 ------- 6.77

   TELEPHONE BONDS ----- 5.65 ------ 5.70 ------- 6.77

   MUNICIPAL BONDS(xxx) 5.19 ------ 5.20 ------- 5.63

   (x) Estimated daily average, Dow Jones Markets

   (xx) Realized dollar amount rises with inflation

   (xxx) Municipal Bond Index, The Bond Buyer

   Salomon Brothers and Dow Jones Markets for Treasury bellwether
bonds, notes and bills. &QL;
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here are the daily key rates from The New York Times.

   -------------------Thursday----Previous day---Year Ago

   PRIME RATE ---------- 8.50 ------ 8.50 ------- 8.50

   DISCOUNT RATE ------- 5.00 ------ 5.00 ------- 5.00

   FEDERAL FUNDS(x) ---- 5.63 ------ 5.53 ------- 5.58

   3-MO. TREAS. BILLS -- 4.94 ------ 4.99 ------- 4.82

   6-MO. TREAS. BILLS -- 5.09 ------ 5.14 ------- 5.11

   10-YR. TREAS. INF(xx) 3.70 ------ 3.71 ------- 3.55

   10-YR. TREAS. NOTES - 5.44 ------ 5.50 ------- 6.48

   30-YR. TREAS. BONDS - 5.65 ------ 5.70 ------- 6.77

   TELEPHONE BONDS ----- 5.65 ------ 5.70 ------- 6.77

   MUNICIPAL BONDS(xxx) 5.19 ------ 5.20 ------- 5.63

   (x) Estimated daily average, Dow Jones Markets

   (xx) Realized dollar amount rises with inflation

   (xxx) Municipal Bond Index, The Bond Buyer

   Salomon Brothers and Dow Jones Markets for Treasury bellwether
bonds, notes and bills. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0191 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:23 ',
			header: '
A5110 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FAMILIES-ADVISORY-NYT     06-11 0735
',
			slug: ' BC-FAMILIES-ADVISORY-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   The New York Times News Service calls your attention to the
following families features.

   The stories are from The New York Times (NYT), The Boston Globe
(BOS), Cox News Service (COX), and Hearst Newspapers (HNS).

   Photos, where indicated, have been sent to NYT photo clients.
Graphics, where indicated, have been sent to NYT graphic clients.
Nonsubscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204.

   For retransmission of these stories, call 212-556-1927.

   &UR; FEATURES &LR;

   MARRIAGE-TAX-REVIEW-NYT _ Congress is well on its way towards
overhauling the tax-law provisions that push many married couples
into a higher tax bracket than they would be in if they were
single. By Richard W. Stevenson.

   ELDERLY-CARE-NYT (Philadelphia) _ As Americans continue to live
longer than ever, growing numbers of elderly people and their
families are being caught in the gap between the cost of long-term
care, necessities ranging from private aides to diapers, and the
limited amount of government aid to pay for it. And as the baby
boomers age over the next 30 years and the over-85 population grows
particularly fast, the need for such care will only escalate,
experts say. By Sara Rimer.

   KIDSNEWS-HUNGER-COX _ Rick Bragg is a writer for The New York
Times and has plenty of money for food. But some people _ even
today in our rich country _ don't. A lot of times, adults who don't
have much money find it hard to buy groceries, pay rent and buy all
the other things their families need. They may put enough food on
the table, but it's a struggle _ and it's a bad feeling.

   MOVIES-TWEENERS (Undated) _

   Hollywood hasn't quite given up on the tweens _ the 9- to
12-year-olds _ but it is as perplexed about how to entertain them
as parents are about how to rear them. ``There's very little being
made anymore for the tweeners,'' says Terry Press, head of
marketing for Dreamworks. ``We figure they are either going to be
dragged to `Quest for Camelot' with their younger siblings or they
reach 8 and want to see `Titanic' and everything else. They've
really become a niche market.'' By Michele Willens.

   MONSTERS _ As sci-fi and monster movies increasingly depict kids
at risk _ and spin off toys that appeal to very young kids _
parents need to arm their kids with two weapons: common sense and
sleep. Atlanta psychologist Stephen Garber, author of ``Monsters
Under the Bed and Other Childhood Fears,'' says kids under 8 or 9
really can't distinguish reality and fantasy.

   BLACKWHITE-COX (Atlanta) _ People do many things to stand out in
a crowd. Joel Bethea and Kelvin Lawrence simply went to high
school. Bethea is one of two white students graduating this month
from Southwest DeKalb High, and Lawrence is one of six black
students in his senior class at Pope High in the suburb of East
Cobb. On June 13, they both will celebrate their high-school
graduation. They admit it wasn't always easy being a white face in
a black crowd or vice versa. But they didn't just survive their
four years of high school, they thrived. Here's how.

   CARS-TEENS (Undated) _ It's not Doom or Flight Simulator, but
the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety has concocted a lively
computer game for teen-agers called Driver-ZED that shows half a
dozen ways to crack up a car, in city, suburban or country driving.
By Matthew L. Wald.

   TEEN-DRINKING _ Just say ``maybe.'' Parents are sending this
confused message about drugs and alcohol to their teenagers,
according to a new survey by the Hazelden Foundation, a national
nonprofit drug treatment program based in Minnesota. According to
the survey, only 23 percent of parents said they would flatly
forbid their teens to drink until the legal age, 21.

   &UR; COLUMNS &LR;

   GOODYKOONTZ-COLUMN-AZR (Undated) _ The more I learn about labor
and birth, the more I'm convinced that the parents who have gone
through it are sworn to secrecy. By Bill Goodykoontz.

   FAMILY-COLUMN-BOS (Undated) _ It's springtime and the invasion
of wildlife begins in the home. By Linda Weltner.

   CHILDCARE-COLUMN-BOS (Undated) _ It's normal for babies to cry,
but there are things you can do. By Barbara F. Mltz.

   CIR-MATH-GAMES (Undated) _ Computer games add fun to summer math
practice. By Alice Keim.

   &QL;
',
			body: '

  
 (ATTN: Managing editors, lifestyle editors) 

',
			paragraphs: '
   The New York Times News Service calls your attention to the
following families features.

   The stories are from The New York Times (NYT), The Boston Globe
(BOS), Cox News Service (COX), and Hearst Newspapers (HNS).

   Photos, where indicated, have been sent to NYT photo clients.
Graphics, where indicated, have been sent to NYT graphic clients.
Nonsubscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204.

   For retransmission of these stories, call 212-556-1927.

   &UR; FEATURES &LR;

   MARRIAGE-TAX-REVIEW-NYT _ Congress is well on its way towards
overhauling the tax-law provisions that push many married couples
into a higher tax bracket than they would be in if they were
single. By Richard W. Stevenson.

   ELDERLY-CARE-NYT (Philadelphia) _ As Americans continue to live
longer than ever, growing numbers of elderly people and their
families are being caught in the gap between the cost of long-term
care, necessities ranging from private aides to diapers, and the
limited amount of government aid to pay for it. And as the baby
boomers age over the next 30 years and the over-85 population grows
particularly fast, the need for such care will only escalate,
experts say. By Sara Rimer.

   KIDSNEWS-HUNGER-COX _ Rick Bragg is a writer for The New York
Times and has plenty of money for food. But some people _ even
today in our rich country _ don't. A lot of times, adults who don't
have much money find it hard to buy groceries, pay rent and buy all
the other things their families need. They may put enough food on
the table, but it's a struggle _ and it's a bad feeling.

   MOVIES-TWEENERS (Undated) _

   Hollywood hasn't quite given up on the tweens _ the 9- to
12-year-olds _ but it is as perplexed about how to entertain them
as parents are about how to rear them. ``There's very little being
made anymore for the tweeners,'' says Terry Press, head of
marketing for Dreamworks. ``We figure they are either going to be
dragged to `Quest for Camelot' with their younger siblings or they
reach 8 and want to see `Titanic' and everything else. They've
really become a niche market.'' By Michele Willens.

   MONSTERS _ As sci-fi and monster movies increasingly depict kids
at risk _ and spin off toys that appeal to very young kids _
parents need to arm their kids with two weapons: common sense and
sleep. Atlanta psychologist Stephen Garber, author of ``Monsters
Under the Bed and Other Childhood Fears,'' says kids under 8 or 9
really can't distinguish reality and fantasy.

   BLACKWHITE-COX (Atlanta) _ People do many things to stand out in
a crowd. Joel Bethea and Kelvin Lawrence simply went to high
school. Bethea is one of two white students graduating this month
from Southwest DeKalb High, and Lawrence is one of six black
students in his senior class at Pope High in the suburb of East
Cobb. On June 13, they both will celebrate their high-school
graduation. They admit it wasn't always easy being a white face in
a black crowd or vice versa. But they didn't just survive their
four years of high school, they thrived. Here's how.

   CARS-TEENS (Undated) _ It's not Doom or Flight Simulator, but
the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety has concocted a lively
computer game for teen-agers called Driver-ZED that shows half a
dozen ways to crack up a car, in city, suburban or country driving.
By Matthew L. Wald.

   TEEN-DRINKING _ Just say ``maybe.'' Parents are sending this
confused message about drugs and alcohol to their teenagers,
according to a new survey by the Hazelden Foundation, a national
nonprofit drug treatment program based in Minnesota. According to
the survey, only 23 percent of parents said they would flatly
forbid their teens to drink until the legal age, 21.

   &UR; COLUMNS &LR;

   GOODYKOONTZ-COLUMN-AZR (Undated) _ The more I learn about labor
and birth, the more I'm convinced that the parents who have gone
through it are sworn to secrecy. By Bill Goodykoontz.

   FAMILY-COLUMN-BOS (Undated) _ It's springtime and the invasion
of wildlife begins in the home. By Linda Weltner.

   CHILDCARE-COLUMN-BOS (Undated) _ It's normal for babies to cry,
but there are things you can do. By Barbara F. Mltz.

   CIR-MATH-GAMES (Undated) _ Computer games add fun to summer math
practice. By Alice Keim.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0192 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:25 ',
			header: '
A5115 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EYES-FILM-REVIEW-NYT &LR;      06-11 0697
',
			slug: ' BC-EYES-FILM-REVIEW-NYT ',
			headline: '
`WHEN I CLOSE MY EYES': AN INTRIGUING EVOCATION OF GRIEF 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Love, fear and revulsion are some of the feelings
movies are particularly adept at conjuring, but grief is much more
elusive because it's so private. How do you evoke the inner life of
a solitary mourner mutely contemplating the world from behind an
emotional shroud?

   ``When I Close My Eyes,'' the feature film debut of the Japanese
director Shunji Iwai offers an intriguing narrative platform from
which to experience the sadness of its bereft central character,
Hiroko Watanabe (Miho Nakayama).

   The film begins at a memorial service two years after the death
of her fiance in a mountaineering accident. After the ceremony,
Hiroko, who lives in Kobe, discovers her lover's high-school
yearbook while sorting through his belongings. Finding what she
assumes is his old address in the back, she impulsively writes him
a letter and mails it, as though she were sending a note to heaven,
without expecting an answer.

   In a stunning coincidence the letter is delivered to a young
woman, Itsuki Fujii, who not only has the same name as her dead
lover but was in his high school class in Otaru, a town in northern
Japan. A correspondence that begins tentatively intensifies when
Itsuki, at Hiroko's request, begins raking her mind for memories of
the classmate with whom she was continually confused because they
shared the same name.

   As old memories are awakened, the movie flashes back to scenes
of the pranks played by classmates on the two Itsukis, who
developed a secret bond even while professing to resent each other
for having the same name and being tormented for it. When they
worked side by side in the school library, the male Itsuki (Takashi
Kashiwabara) played a hide-and-seek game involving library cards
and hidden books that a younger generation of students working in
the same library has discovered and elevated into a kind of school
myth.

   Adding metaphorical richness to the movie, which at moments
recalls Krzysztof Kieslowski's ``Double Life of Veronique,'' is the
fact that Ms. Nakayama plays both Hiroko and the grown-up Itsuki,
who turn out to have a twinlike physical resemblance, although
their personalities are very different.

   Itsuki, moreover, has also suffered a loss. Not long ago, her
father died of pneumonia on the way to the hospital. And Itsuki,
who when first glimpsed is suffering from a bad cold, has
nightmares that she too will be suddenly stricken. Eventually
Hiroko and her fiance's best friend, Akiba (Etsushi Toyokawa), who
is in love with her and wants to marry her, travel to Otaru. Akiba
hopes that Hiroko, by meeting her correspondent, can shake off the
ghosts of the past and begin loving him.

   ``When I Close My Eyes,'' which opens Friday at the 59th Street
Theater in Manhattan, swirls with unsettling notions of multiple
identity, memory and parallel lives. But they never quite mesh into
a fully realized concept of the characters' lives and how they
intersect. With a running time of nearly two hours, the film
sometimes meanders so fitfully that it loses its narrative drive.

   Nor does it find visual images compelling enough to give its
scenario a metaphorical underlining. For those you would have to
turn to another Japanese film, Hirokazu Kore-eda's 1996 work,
``Maborosi.'' In that extraordinarily atmospheric and emotionally
wrenching movie, every particle of light and air is charged with
sadness.

   ``When I Close My Eyes'':

   Written (in Japanese, with English subtitles), directed and
edited by Shunji Iwai; director of photography, Noboru Shinoda;
music by Remedios; production designer, Terumi Hosoishi; produced
by Koichi Murakami, Hajime Shigemura, Juichi Horiguchi, Jiro
Komaki, Tomoki Ikeda and Masahiko Nagasawa; released by Fine Line
Features. At the 59th Street East, Second Avenue and 59th Street,
Manhattan. Running time: 116 minutes. This film is rated PG-13.

   With: Miho Nakayama (Hiroko Watanabe/Itsuki Fujii), Etsushi
Toyokawa (Shigeru Akiba), Takashi Kashiwabara (male Itsuki Fujii).
 &QL;

   &QL;
',
			body: '


   (ja) 
 By STEPHEN HOLDEN    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Love, fear and revulsion are some of the feelings
movies are particularly adept at conjuring, but grief is much more
elusive because it's so private. How do you evoke the inner life of
a solitary mourner mutely contemplating the world from behind an
emotional shroud?

   ``When I Close My Eyes,'' the feature film debut of the Japanese
director Shunji Iwai offers an intriguing narrative platform from
which to experience the sadness of its bereft central character,
Hiroko Watanabe (Miho Nakayama).

   The film begins at a memorial service two years after the death
of her fiance in a mountaineering accident. After the ceremony,
Hiroko, who lives in Kobe, discovers her lover's high-school
yearbook while sorting through his belongings. Finding what she
assumes is his old address in the back, she impulsively writes him
a letter and mails it, as though she were sending a note to heaven,
without expecting an answer.

   In a stunning coincidence the letter is delivered to a young
woman, Itsuki Fujii, who not only has the same name as her dead
lover but was in his high school class in Otaru, a town in northern
Japan. A correspondence that begins tentatively intensifies when
Itsuki, at Hiroko's request, begins raking her mind for memories of
the classmate with whom she was continually confused because they
shared the same name.

   As old memories are awakened, the movie flashes back to scenes
of the pranks played by classmates on the two Itsukis, who
developed a secret bond even while professing to resent each other
for having the same name and being tormented for it. When they
worked side by side in the school library, the male Itsuki (Takashi
Kashiwabara) played a hide-and-seek game involving library cards
and hidden books that a younger generation of students working in
the same library has discovered and elevated into a kind of school
myth.

   Adding metaphorical richness to the movie, which at moments
recalls Krzysztof Kieslowski's ``Double Life of Veronique,'' is the
fact that Ms. Nakayama plays both Hiroko and the grown-up Itsuki,
who turn out to have a twinlike physical resemblance, although
their personalities are very different.

   Itsuki, moreover, has also suffered a loss. Not long ago, her
father died of pneumonia on the way to the hospital. And Itsuki,
who when first glimpsed is suffering from a bad cold, has
nightmares that she too will be suddenly stricken. Eventually
Hiroko and her fiance's best friend, Akiba (Etsushi Toyokawa), who
is in love with her and wants to marry her, travel to Otaru. Akiba
hopes that Hiroko, by meeting her correspondent, can shake off the
ghosts of the past and begin loving him.

   ``When I Close My Eyes,'' which opens Friday at the 59th Street
Theater in Manhattan, swirls with unsettling notions of multiple
identity, memory and parallel lives. But they never quite mesh into
a fully realized concept of the characters' lives and how they
intersect. With a running time of nearly two hours, the film
sometimes meanders so fitfully that it loses its narrative drive.

   Nor does it find visual images compelling enough to give its
scenario a metaphorical underlining. For those you would have to
turn to another Japanese film, Hirokazu Kore-eda's 1996 work,
``Maborosi.'' In that extraordinarily atmospheric and emotionally
wrenching movie, every particle of light and air is charged with
sadness.

   ``When I Close My Eyes'':

   Written (in Japanese, with English subtitles), directed and
edited by Shunji Iwai; director of photography, Noboru Shinoda;
music by Remedios; production designer, Terumi Hosoishi; produced
by Koichi Murakami, Hajime Shigemura, Juichi Horiguchi, Jiro
Komaki, Tomoki Ikeda and Masahiko Nagasawa; released by Fine Line
Features. At the 59th Street East, Second Avenue and 59th Street,
Manhattan. Running time: 116 minutes. This film is rated PG-13.

   With: Miho Nakayama (Hiroko Watanabe/Itsuki Fujii), Etsushi
Toyokawa (Shigeru Akiba), Takashi Kashiwabara (male Itsuki Fujii).
 &QL;

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0193 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:26 ',
			header: '
A5117 &Cx1f; ttx-z
r f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BIZ-BOOKS-TEX     06-11 0754
',
			slug: ' BC-BIZ-BOOKS-TEX ',
			headline: '
YOUR GUESS IS AS GOOD AS FORECASTERS' PERFORMANCE
',
			trailer: '
   Can the stock market be predicted? Can changes in the economy be
predicted? Can even the weather be predicted?

   Not really, says William A. Sherden, in his book ``The Fortune
Sellers: The Big Business of Buying and Selling Predictions'' (John
Wiley and Sons, 308 pages, $29.95).

   Predicting the future has become a $200-billion-a-year industry,
although almost all predictors have a track record no better than
50-50, which anybody can do with the flip of a coin.

   Sherden is a management consultant with engineering and
financial backgrounds, both of which serve him well in this study.

   In a well-documented analysis, Sherden takes on such predictors
as the National Weather Service, the Federal Reserve, the Census
Bureau, money management firms and futurists.

   He acknowledges in only two of those areas that predictions can
be accurate: short-term (48-hour) weather forecasting and
demographic (population) trends.

   What about the predictions of the economists? Pretty poor. The
Federal Reserve Board's economists predicted only three of the six
turning points in gross domestic product growth from 1980 to 1995,
and they missed both the inflation turning points during that
period.

   The Fed's actions, based on those predictions, have tremendous
consequences. When Paul Volcker, chairman of the Federal Reserve
from 1979 to 1987, declared war on inflation by tightening the
money supply and jacking up short-term interest rates from 10
percent to 19 percent, he rid the United States of dangerously high
inflation, but he also triggered the 1980 recession, which caused
``the highest unemployment rate since the Great Depression, the
bankruptcy of tens of thousands of U.S. businesses and the default
of many developing countries ... on $300 billion worth of bank
loans. That's power.''

   Private-sector forecasters do no better. Sherden reviewed 12
studies on forecasting accuracy published during the period
1979-1995 and concluded: ``Economists' forecasting skill on average
is about as good as guessing. ... Economists cannot predict turning
points in the economy. ... Increased sophistication provides no
improvement in economic forecast accuracy. ... There is no evidence
that economic forecasting skill has improved over the past three
decades.''

   Stock-market gurus also take a pounding from Sherden. After
discussing the various theories of stock pricing, Sherden asserts
that although a market guru may occasionally predict correctly, it
is ``a short-lived honor, because the likelihood of a repeat
performance is remote.''

   A recent example is Elaine Garzarelli, formerly with Shearson
Lehman, who predicted the Black Monday crash of Oct. 16, 1987. With
her reputation guaranteed by that prediction, Garzarelli became one
of the highest-paid (and highest-publicized) strategists on Wall
Street, and later started a highly successful financial newsletter
and her own mutual fund. She has had enormous influence on
investors.

   But Sherden analyzed the 13 market calls Garzarelli made from
1987 to 1996 and found that she was right only five times, or 38
percent, ``a record that is worse than the 50 percent chance of
flipping a coin.'' Also, except for the Black Monday crash, she did
not predict any of the major turning points in the market, ``which
is what strategists are supposed to do,'' Sherden notes.

   Sherden also turns his big guns on the futurists _ those who aim
at predicting societal change. He examines the validity of social
predictions made over the years from H.G. Wells to Alvin Toffler
and Faith Popcorn, and finds that ``with few exceptions, Toffler's
predictions have been dead wrong so far,'' and some of Popcorn's
expensive predictions ``seem more a function of her own wishful
thinking than anything else.''

   Sherden says that many of the futurists' prophecies are based on
what people want to believe will happen, and the futurists use this
human yearning to peddle their wares.

   All in all, ``The Fortune Sellers'' is a very interesting and
valuable book _ well-written, well-documented, with an abundance of
graphical illustrations and an extensive bibliography for those who
wish to pursue the subject further.

   (Teresa McUsic reviews business books for the Fort Worth
Star-Telegram. Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the
World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com)
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By TERESA McUSIC 
c.1998 Fort Worth Star-Telegram 

',
			paragraphs: '
   Can the stock market be predicted? Can changes in the economy be
predicted? Can even the weather be predicted?

   Not really, says William A. Sherden, in his book ``The Fortune
Sellers: The Big Business of Buying and Selling Predictions'' (John
Wiley and Sons, 308 pages, $29.95).

   Predicting the future has become a $200-billion-a-year industry,
although almost all predictors have a track record no better than
50-50, which anybody can do with the flip of a coin.

   Sherden is a management consultant with engineering and
financial backgrounds, both of which serve him well in this study.

   In a well-documented analysis, Sherden takes on such predictors
as the National Weather Service, the Federal Reserve, the Census
Bureau, money management firms and futurists.

   He acknowledges in only two of those areas that predictions can
be accurate: short-term (48-hour) weather forecasting and
demographic (population) trends.

   What about the predictions of the economists? Pretty poor. The
Federal Reserve Board's economists predicted only three of the six
turning points in gross domestic product growth from 1980 to 1995,
and they missed both the inflation turning points during that
period.

   The Fed's actions, based on those predictions, have tremendous
consequences. When Paul Volcker, chairman of the Federal Reserve
from 1979 to 1987, declared war on inflation by tightening the
money supply and jacking up short-term interest rates from 10
percent to 19 percent, he rid the United States of dangerously high
inflation, but he also triggered the 1980 recession, which caused
``the highest unemployment rate since the Great Depression, the
bankruptcy of tens of thousands of U.S. businesses and the default
of many developing countries ... on $300 billion worth of bank
loans. That's power.''

   Private-sector forecasters do no better. Sherden reviewed 12
studies on forecasting accuracy published during the period
1979-1995 and concluded: ``Economists' forecasting skill on average
is about as good as guessing. ... Economists cannot predict turning
points in the economy. ... Increased sophistication provides no
improvement in economic forecast accuracy. ... There is no evidence
that economic forecasting skill has improved over the past three
decades.''

   Stock-market gurus also take a pounding from Sherden. After
discussing the various theories of stock pricing, Sherden asserts
that although a market guru may occasionally predict correctly, it
is ``a short-lived honor, because the likelihood of a repeat
performance is remote.''

   A recent example is Elaine Garzarelli, formerly with Shearson
Lehman, who predicted the Black Monday crash of Oct. 16, 1987. With
her reputation guaranteed by that prediction, Garzarelli became one
of the highest-paid (and highest-publicized) strategists on Wall
Street, and later started a highly successful financial newsletter
and her own mutual fund. She has had enormous influence on
investors.

   But Sherden analyzed the 13 market calls Garzarelli made from
1987 to 1996 and found that she was right only five times, or 38
percent, ``a record that is worse than the 50 percent chance of
flipping a coin.'' Also, except for the Black Monday crash, she did
not predict any of the major turning points in the market, ``which
is what strategists are supposed to do,'' Sherden notes.

   Sherden also turns his big guns on the futurists _ those who aim
at predicting societal change. He examines the validity of social
predictions made over the years from H.G. Wells to Alvin Toffler
and Faith Popcorn, and finds that ``with few exceptions, Toffler's
predictions have been dead wrong so far,'' and some of Popcorn's
expensive predictions ``seem more a function of her own wishful
thinking than anything else.''

   Sherden says that many of the futurists' prophecies are based on
what people want to believe will happen, and the futurists use this
human yearning to peddle their wares.

   All in all, ``The Fortune Sellers'' is a very interesting and
valuable book _ well-written, well-documented, with an abundance of
graphical illustrations and an extensive bibliography for those who
wish to pursue the subject further.

   (Teresa McUsic reviews business books for the Fort Worth
Star-Telegram. Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the
World Wide Web: www.star-telegram.com)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0194 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:26 ',
			header: '
A5120 &Cx1f; ttx-z
r f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-YELLOWCAB-SATELLITES-     06-11 0872
',
			slug: ' BC-YELLOWCAB-SATELLITES-TEX ',
			headline: '
YELLOW CAB CO. STAYS ON TOP BY USING SATELLITES
',
			trailer: '
   EULESS, Texas _ Yellow Cab Co. has taken a great leap into the
space age.

   Yellow Cab of Fort Worth-Dallas is using satellites to keep
track of its cab drivers.

   Since adding a $1.7 million satellite-tracking system in
December 1996, the cab company has improved response time to its
fares, added 50 cabs to its force, and reduced its dispatch work
force.

   The company has added 50 cabs to the 450 it operated when the
satellite-tracking system was installed, said James E. Richards,
president of Yellow Cab Co. The company handles about 6,000 cab
calls per day, but has reduced its call takers to 11 from 16 per
shift, Richards said. Some workers are extremely efficient: one
worker handled 531 calls one day last week.

   That's because average call times have been cut in half. Calls
used to last two minutes or more, but now the average call is less
than one minute, Richards said.

   And the work has become easier because the harried dispatchers
are no longer chasing stray pieces of paper around the office.

   ``It's like the difference between riding a bicycle and driving
a Cadillac,'' said Ted Eldred, the wiry dispatch supervisor who
keeps tab of the cabbies on a computer screen in a cramped corner
of Yellow Cab's office in Euless.

   Eldred is stationed in a corner that used to be a receptionist's
desk in a doctor's office in Euless, while the call takers are
packed into the former waiting room.

   To Eldred, the cabs appear as little red dots on a yellow map
striped with black streets spiralling and jutting across the
computer screen.

   Each screen is as detailed as a Mapsco page and it shows cabs
that are ready to go when a call from the specific area comes in.

   The system, which uses global-positioning satellites, keeps
track of cabs to within 10 feet by installing a small antenna on
each cab. That antenna picks up signals from the orbiting
satellites and then the location of each cab is sent directly to
the Yellow Cab computer system.

   The system makes it easier for people who are taking the calls
because addresses throughout the Metroplex are already programmed
into ``zones.'' Cabbies must report the zone they are in and the
nearest available cab is summoned for the incoming call.

   By having addresses pre-programmed and a database that is
updated with every call, people who don't know the winding streets
of the Metroplex can still dispatch cabs.

   ``With this system, a boy from Canada can sit there and do it
efficiently,'' said Ed Christianson, a Canadian transplant who
moved to the Metroplex three months ago to run Yellow Cab's system.

   And the cab drivers can't try to beat the system by claiming
they are in a high-traffic zone when they aren't there.

   Some cabbies used to call in to dispatch headquarters and say
they were in downtown Dallas or Fort Worth, even if they were still
near the airport or some other location to drop off a fare.

   ``And then they would drive like hell to get there,'' Richards
said.

   The satellites won't let the drivers lie. Cabbies can only
report from the zone they are in.

   Although some drivers could grouse about a ``big brother''
system that monitors their every move, not all of them mind the
high-tech additions.

   ``You get tired of listening to a dispatcher for 12 hours,''
said E.J. Ahmed, who has been driving a cab for 16 years.

   And dispatchers can't play favorites by directing fares to their
favorite drivers. The system sends fares to the nearest cab.

   The system adds as much as $6 a day to the cab drivers' costs,
who work as independent contractors for the company. But Richards
said the cabbies can recover that cost because they get more trips
per shift.

   The antennas also make life safer for the cabbies. If someone
tries to rob the driver, the dispatcher knows exactly where to send
the police.

   ``If somebody wants to steal a cab, I would suggest they go to
another company, because we're going to nail them,'' Christianson
said.

   Christianson knows the ins and outs of the system because he
used to work for Digital Dispatch Systems of Richmond, British
Columbia.

   Paul Hopkins, project manager for DDS, said the company has
installed satellite-tracking systems for 50 cab companies in North
America.

   Golden Cab of Dallas plans to install the system in its fleet of
Golden Cabs, Executive Taxis and Taxi Dallas cars by fall, said
Allen Mansourian, owner of Golden Cab.

   The improvements in efficiency are the primary goal, but cab
customers are getting benefits, too.

   Many cab riders have called to retrieve lost keys, plane
tickets, billfolds, even a weed trimmer.

   And Yellow Cab has assisted in legal investigations. In one
case, Richards said, Yellow Cab cooperated with federal authorities
who were tracking a criminal suspect. The cab driver had no idea
until he arrived at the destination and his car was surrounded by
law-enforcement officials who arrested the suspect.

   _ (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide
Web: www.star-telegram.com)
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By MARK P. COUCH 
c.1998 Fort Worth Star-Telegram 

',
			paragraphs: '
   EULESS, Texas _ Yellow Cab Co. has taken a great leap into the
space age.

   Yellow Cab of Fort Worth-Dallas is using satellites to keep
track of its cab drivers.

   Since adding a $1.7 million satellite-tracking system in
December 1996, the cab company has improved response time to its
fares, added 50 cabs to its force, and reduced its dispatch work
force.

   The company has added 50 cabs to the 450 it operated when the
satellite-tracking system was installed, said James E. Richards,
president of Yellow Cab Co. The company handles about 6,000 cab
calls per day, but has reduced its call takers to 11 from 16 per
shift, Richards said. Some workers are extremely efficient: one
worker handled 531 calls one day last week.

   That's because average call times have been cut in half. Calls
used to last two minutes or more, but now the average call is less
than one minute, Richards said.

   And the work has become easier because the harried dispatchers
are no longer chasing stray pieces of paper around the office.

   ``It's like the difference between riding a bicycle and driving
a Cadillac,'' said Ted Eldred, the wiry dispatch supervisor who
keeps tab of the cabbies on a computer screen in a cramped corner
of Yellow Cab's office in Euless.

   Eldred is stationed in a corner that used to be a receptionist's
desk in a doctor's office in Euless, while the call takers are
packed into the former waiting room.

   To Eldred, the cabs appear as little red dots on a yellow map
striped with black streets spiralling and jutting across the
computer screen.

   Each screen is as detailed as a Mapsco page and it shows cabs
that are ready to go when a call from the specific area comes in.

   The system, which uses global-positioning satellites, keeps
track of cabs to within 10 feet by installing a small antenna on
each cab. That antenna picks up signals from the orbiting
satellites and then the location of each cab is sent directly to
the Yellow Cab computer system.

   The system makes it easier for people who are taking the calls
because addresses throughout the Metroplex are already programmed
into ``zones.'' Cabbies must report the zone they are in and the
nearest available cab is summoned for the incoming call.

   By having addresses pre-programmed and a database that is
updated with every call, people who don't know the winding streets
of the Metroplex can still dispatch cabs.

   ``With this system, a boy from Canada can sit there and do it
efficiently,'' said Ed Christianson, a Canadian transplant who
moved to the Metroplex three months ago to run Yellow Cab's system.

   And the cab drivers can't try to beat the system by claiming
they are in a high-traffic zone when they aren't there.

   Some cabbies used to call in to dispatch headquarters and say
they were in downtown Dallas or Fort Worth, even if they were still
near the airport or some other location to drop off a fare.

   ``And then they would drive like hell to get there,'' Richards
said.

   The satellites won't let the drivers lie. Cabbies can only
report from the zone they are in.

   Although some drivers could grouse about a ``big brother''
system that monitors their every move, not all of them mind the
high-tech additions.

   ``You get tired of listening to a dispatcher for 12 hours,''
said E.J. Ahmed, who has been driving a cab for 16 years.

   And dispatchers can't play favorites by directing fares to their
favorite drivers. The system sends fares to the nearest cab.

   The system adds as much as $6 a day to the cab drivers' costs,
who work as independent contractors for the company. But Richards
said the cabbies can recover that cost because they get more trips
per shift.

   The antennas also make life safer for the cabbies. If someone
tries to rob the driver, the dispatcher knows exactly where to send
the police.

   ``If somebody wants to steal a cab, I would suggest they go to
another company, because we're going to nail them,'' Christianson
said.

   Christianson knows the ins and outs of the system because he
used to work for Digital Dispatch Systems of Richmond, British
Columbia.

   Paul Hopkins, project manager for DDS, said the company has
installed satellite-tracking systems for 50 cab companies in North
America.

   Golden Cab of Dallas plans to install the system in its fleet of
Golden Cabs, Executive Taxis and Taxi Dallas cars by fall, said
Allen Mansourian, owner of Golden Cab.

   The improvements in efficiency are the primary goal, but cab
customers are getting benefits, too.

   Many cab riders have called to retrieve lost keys, plane
tickets, billfolds, even a weed trimmer.

   And Yellow Cab has assisted in legal investigations. In one
case, Richards said, Yellow Cab cooperated with federal authorities
who were tracking a criminal suspect. The cab driver had no idea
until he arrived at the destination and his car was surrounded by
law-enforcement officials who arrested the suspect.

   _ (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide
Web: www.star-telegram.com)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0195 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:27 ',
			header: '
A5121 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ART-NOTES-NYT &LR;      06-11 0976
',
			slug: ' BC-ART-NOTES-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ For most of his 91 years, Philip Johnson has been an
important figure at the Museum of Modern Art. He has been a member
of its curatorial staff, the institution's official architect, and
a trustee since 1957. He has also been a consistently generous
donor, giving the museum seminal paintings, drawings and sculpture
by modern masters like Andy Warhol, Jasper Johns, Franz Kline and
Mark Rothko. Johnson has also contributed mightily to the Modern's
design collection, adding furniture and objects by architects like
Ludwig Mies van der Rohe and Marcel Breuer.

   This week, Johnson gave the museum nine paintings: two by Willem
de Kooning, two by Jasper Johns, two by Warhol, two by James
Rosenquist and one by Philip Guston. All may be familiar to those
who have visited Johnson's compound in New Caanan, Conn. Some have
also been loaned to major shows.

   ``I decided it's not fair to the artists to have their work
stuck in the country when they could be in a museum for everyone to
see,'' Johnson said in a telephone interview this week. ``I wanted
to give things that fitted the Modern's collection best.''

   Glenn Lowry, the museum's director, said the gift jacked up the
Modern's collection of contemporary art five notches, in part
because these works rarely come on the market, and when they do,
they're too expensive for any museum to buy.

   ``These are works nobody else could get,'' Lowry said.

   One of the de Koonings, both untitled, is from 1982. The other,
from 1977, is the first of his works from the 70's to enter the
Modern's permanent collection. De Koonings from that decade are
considered among the most desirable to own. The painting, an
abstract seascape with heavily impastoed surfaces, was included in
his retrospective at the National Gallery of Art in Washington and
the Metropolitan Museum of Art four years ago.

   One of the Johns works in the gift is ``Summer,'' seen in the
Modern's large retrospective in 1996. The painting dates from 1985,
and is the first of the artist's ``Four Seasons'' paintings to
enter the Modern's collection.

   ``Summer'' is a complex work with the outline of a man (the
artist's own figure) standing against a stone wall on the left,
while on the right are many of Johns' signature images. Beneath a
field of stars is a ladder and hanging from it are quotations from
his work: the cross-hatching, the double flag and the outstretched
arm within a half-circle. There is even a sea horse, which
represents St. Martin, where the artist has a studio.

   Both Warhols are from the 1960s. One is a self-portrait painted
in 1966, the other his iconic ``S &AMP; H Green Stamps,'' a 1962
silk-screen of row after row of the stamps. It is a great
complement to his ``Campbell's Soup Cans.''

   Johnson's gifts, which go up Friday on the the walls of the
museum's third-floor galleries of contemporary painting and
sculpture, will be on view for about six weeks.

   &UR; Whitney Excitement  &LR;  There's been a changing of the guard at the
Whitney Museum of American Art.

   At the museum's board meeting last week, Joel Ehrenkranz was
named the Whitney's president, replacing Gilbert Maurer, who is
stepping down after four years. Ehrenkranz, a lawyer who has been
on the board since 1975, has been its treasurer for the last five
years, and before that was its vice president.

   He has also recently assumed another critical role at the
museum. He is chairman of a search committee looking for a director
to replace David Ross, who has become director of the San Francisco
Museum of Modern Art. Willard Holmes is the Whitney's acting
director.

   ``It's a particularly exciting time for the Whitney,''
Ehrenkranz said. Extending the museum's educational activities is
high on his agenda, he said, adding that he hoped to show more of
the museum's permanent collection now that its fifth-floor
permanent galleries have opened.

   ``But more than anything, I want to encourage scholarship,'' he
said. ``It would give us all great pride if we could be a
high-quality scholarly institution.''

   &UR; Baltimore Renovation  &LR;

   On Monday, the second and fourth floors of the 1974 building
that is part of the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore will be closed
for renovations. By Aug. 15, the entire building will be shut for a
three-year $18.5 million renovation,

   The face lift, by Kallmann McKinnell &AMP; Wood Architects, of
Boston, will feature a glass atrium rising four stories, with a
spiral staircase suspended in mid-air.

   ``The initial reason for the renovation is to upgrade the
climate-control system, which is grossly outdated,'' said Gary
Vikan, director of the Walters. ``It will also drastically
transform the visual cacophony of this neo-brutalist building.''

   He added that the museum had been quietly raising money for both
the renovation and a larger endowment.

   After the renovation, the 1974 building will still hold the
gallery's Egyptian, Greek and Roman, Medieval and Islamic art, as
well as its 19th-century collections, its manuscript and rare book
departments and temporary exhibition galleries. But each of these
will be reinstalled and enlarged.

   The Walters' 1904 building, next to the newer one, will remain
open during the renovation, as will its Hackerman House Museum of
Asian Art. Highlights from the permanent collection will be shown
in the 1904 building, along with special shows, beginning with
``The Invisible Made Visible: Angels from the Vatican,'' set to
open on Nov. 8.

   Vikan said the museum would soon begin originating more of its
own exhibitions.

   ``We want to be more in the public eye,'' he said. ``We have not
reached our potential.''  &QL;
',
			body: '

  
 INSIDE ART: NINE GIFTS TO MODERN MUSEUM; NEW PRESIDENT AT WHITNEY;
BALTIMORE RENOVATION  (ja) 
 By CAROL VOGEL   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ For most of his 91 years, Philip Johnson has been an
important figure at the Museum of Modern Art. He has been a member
of its curatorial staff, the institution's official architect, and
a trustee since 1957. He has also been a consistently generous
donor, giving the museum seminal paintings, drawings and sculpture
by modern masters like Andy Warhol, Jasper Johns, Franz Kline and
Mark Rothko. Johnson has also contributed mightily to the Modern's
design collection, adding furniture and objects by architects like
Ludwig Mies van der Rohe and Marcel Breuer.

   This week, Johnson gave the museum nine paintings: two by Willem
de Kooning, two by Jasper Johns, two by Warhol, two by James
Rosenquist and one by Philip Guston. All may be familiar to those
who have visited Johnson's compound in New Caanan, Conn. Some have
also been loaned to major shows.

   ``I decided it's not fair to the artists to have their work
stuck in the country when they could be in a museum for everyone to
see,'' Johnson said in a telephone interview this week. ``I wanted
to give things that fitted the Modern's collection best.''

   Glenn Lowry, the museum's director, said the gift jacked up the
Modern's collection of contemporary art five notches, in part
because these works rarely come on the market, and when they do,
they're too expensive for any museum to buy.

   ``These are works nobody else could get,'' Lowry said.

   One of the de Koonings, both untitled, is from 1982. The other,
from 1977, is the first of his works from the 70's to enter the
Modern's permanent collection. De Koonings from that decade are
considered among the most desirable to own. The painting, an
abstract seascape with heavily impastoed surfaces, was included in
his retrospective at the National Gallery of Art in Washington and
the Metropolitan Museum of Art four years ago.

   One of the Johns works in the gift is ``Summer,'' seen in the
Modern's large retrospective in 1996. The painting dates from 1985,
and is the first of the artist's ``Four Seasons'' paintings to
enter the Modern's collection.

   ``Summer'' is a complex work with the outline of a man (the
artist's own figure) standing against a stone wall on the left,
while on the right are many of Johns' signature images. Beneath a
field of stars is a ladder and hanging from it are quotations from
his work: the cross-hatching, the double flag and the outstretched
arm within a half-circle. There is even a sea horse, which
represents St. Martin, where the artist has a studio.

   Both Warhols are from the 1960s. One is a self-portrait painted
in 1966, the other his iconic ``S &AMP; H Green Stamps,'' a 1962
silk-screen of row after row of the stamps. It is a great
complement to his ``Campbell's Soup Cans.''

   Johnson's gifts, which go up Friday on the the walls of the
museum's third-floor galleries of contemporary painting and
sculpture, will be on view for about six weeks.

   &UR; Whitney Excitement  &LR;  There's been a changing of the guard at the
Whitney Museum of American Art.

   At the museum's board meeting last week, Joel Ehrenkranz was
named the Whitney's president, replacing Gilbert Maurer, who is
stepping down after four years. Ehrenkranz, a lawyer who has been
on the board since 1975, has been its treasurer for the last five
years, and before that was its vice president.

   He has also recently assumed another critical role at the
museum. He is chairman of a search committee looking for a director
to replace David Ross, who has become director of the San Francisco
Museum of Modern Art. Willard Holmes is the Whitney's acting
director.

   ``It's a particularly exciting time for the Whitney,''
Ehrenkranz said. Extending the museum's educational activities is
high on his agenda, he said, adding that he hoped to show more of
the museum's permanent collection now that its fifth-floor
permanent galleries have opened.

   ``But more than anything, I want to encourage scholarship,'' he
said. ``It would give us all great pride if we could be a
high-quality scholarly institution.''

   &UR; Baltimore Renovation  &LR;

   On Monday, the second and fourth floors of the 1974 building
that is part of the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore will be closed
for renovations. By Aug. 15, the entire building will be shut for a
three-year $18.5 million renovation,

   The face lift, by Kallmann McKinnell &AMP; Wood Architects, of
Boston, will feature a glass atrium rising four stories, with a
spiral staircase suspended in mid-air.

   ``The initial reason for the renovation is to upgrade the
climate-control system, which is grossly outdated,'' said Gary
Vikan, director of the Walters. ``It will also drastically
transform the visual cacophony of this neo-brutalist building.''

   He added that the museum had been quietly raising money for both
the renovation and a larger endowment.

   After the renovation, the 1974 building will still hold the
gallery's Egyptian, Greek and Roman, Medieval and Islamic art, as
well as its 19th-century collections, its manuscript and rare book
departments and temporary exhibition galleries. But each of these
will be reinstalled and enlarged.

   The Walters' 1904 building, next to the newer one, will remain
open during the renovation, as will its Hackerman House Museum of
Asian Art. Highlights from the permanent collection will be shown
in the 1904 building, along with special shows, beginning with
``The Invisible Made Visible: Angels from the Vatican,'' set to
open on Nov. 8.

   Vikan said the museum would soon begin originating more of its
own exhibitions.

   ``We want to be more in the public eye,'' he said. ``We have not
reached our potential.''  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0196 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:28 ',
			header: '
A5128 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-APPLE'S-SAVANNAH-ART-     06-11 0996
',
			slug: ' BC-APPLE'S-SAVANNAH-ART-3TAKES-NYT ',
			headline: '
SAVANNAH: `GOOD AND EVIL,' BUT ALWAYS CHARMING 
',
			trailer: '
   SAVANNAH, Ga. _ The genius of Savannah lies in its
contradictions.

   Here is a little city that is positively Cartesian in the logic
of its layout. A grid of broad streets covers two square miles,
punctuated by 21 squares, each with a statue, fountain or gazebo.
Yet the rectilinear regularity never palls, because the streets and
parks are shaded by magnificent live oaks, hung with garlands of
Spanish moss. Could anything be less Cartesian than Spanish moss,
with its inescapable sultry whiff of decadence?

   Here is a city whose people, rich and poor, are so steeped in
good manners _ in the smile, the soft word, the good humor of the
Old South _ that drivers of garbage trucks wave at pedestrians as
they pass. Yet there is nothing low-key or mannerly about
Savannah's horticultural trademark, the azalea, whose Technicolor
floral eruptions each spring couldn't be brasher.

   How lucky Savannah is! Lucky in its founder, Gen. James
Oglethorpe, a kind of contradiction himself as a practical
idealist. Lucky in its escape from pillage during the Civil War,
when Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman, who had sown such havoc on his
march to the sea, rode unopposed into town and wired Abraham
Lincoln on Dec. 22, 1864, ``I beg to present to you as a Christmas
gift the City of Savannah, with 150 heavy guns and plenty of
ammunition.''

   And lucky in its bad luck, too; a century of postwar poverty _
not really poverty, I guess, more a lack of prosperity _ made it
hard for the greedy to redevelop the charm out of the city in the
fearsome name of progress.

   Now the question is whether Savannah can survive its latest
stroke of good fortune: John Berendt's vivid portrait of the city,
its glories and its eccentricities, in ``Midnight in the Garden of
Good and Evil,'' published in 1994, which has spent longer on the
best-seller lists than any other nonfiction book.

   The visitors who have flocked to Savannah to compare their
impressions with Berendt's have changed the place, of course. It is
still ``off the beaten track, en route to nowhere but itself,'' to
use his phrases, but the sound of the streets is no longer ``an
overarching hush.'' Tourism increased by 9 percent last year and
appears headed for a similar increase this year.

   Savannah is the fastest-growing port on the South Atlantic
coast. A new convention center is scheduled to open late next year;
the long-vacant storefronts along Broughton Street have begun to
fill up, and The Savannah Morning News has added a regional
business section to the Sunday paper. The spanking-new airport may
be the best of its (modest) size in the nation.

   But when my wife, Betsey, and I recently returned to Savannah
for our first post-Berendt visit, the city seemed as sweetly
seductive as ever, its beauty untarnished by newfound fame and
fortune. It is still a bit provincial, self-absorbed but not
self-satisfied. There is something reasurringly relaxed about a
place that calls its minor-league baseball team the Sand Gnats.

   Like Charleston and New Orleans, Savannah still dances to
languid rhythms. In the humidity of high summer, the mood is even
drowsier, as residents retreat to their shady, jasmine-scented
gardens. If you want hustle and bustle, flash and dash, if you're
searching for the New South, try Atlanta.

   For most of its history, Savannah has been a cosmopolitan place,
as befits a seaport. Imports flow through the city and up the
Savannah River to the cities and towns of the interior, and exports
follow the same channel of commerce in the opposite direction.

   In addition to its original English settlers, it attracted,
early on, Germans, Irish Catholics, Huguenots and Sephardic Jews.
And it came to have a large black population as the influence of
Oglethorpe's antislavery views waned.

   The Sea Islands off the Georgia coast preserve a semi-indigenous
black culture, where many speak Gullah, a patois that lies
somewhere between English and certain West African tongues. Place
and family names are often African. A slave rebellion took place in
1803 at a place called Ebo Landing, named for the Ibo people of
Nigeria.

   Savannah itself is exceptionally rich in African-American
history.

   Two buildings bear witness to a struggle for dignity that has
been waged for two centuries. The First African Baptist Church
(1788), which claims to be the oldest continuously active black
church in North America, has loose floorboards beneath which
runaway slaves once hid.

   Across town stands the unadorned little Second African Baptist
Church (1802), where Sherman read the Emancipation Proclamation and
promised newly freed slaves ``40 acres and a mule.'' Almost a
century later, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. preached there
an ``I Have a Dream'' sermon that prefigured his historic speech in
Washington.

   John Wesley, the founder of Methodism, also preached in
Savannah, but his message was apparently too dour for the
colonials, and he returned to England.

   Only five years after Oglethorpe's arrival in 1733 to found the
last of the original 13 colonies, a group of Jews landed here, and
descendants of some of them, including Sheftalls and Minises,
remain prominent in Savannah's economic and cultural life. Temple
Mickve Israel, built in 1876, is the only Gothic Revival synagogue
in the United States; its interior has cast-iron cluster pillars, a
fine Spanish chandelier and good stained glass.

   The temple owns the oldest Torah in America and a valuable
collection of books and documents, including letters from
Washington, Jefferson and Madison.

   nn
',
			body: '


  (DUPLICATION WARNING: Story will also move in the ``t'' news
file.) 
(ART ADV: A map is being sent to NYT graphics clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(th) 
 By R.W. APPLE Jr.    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   SAVANNAH, Ga. _ The genius of Savannah lies in its
contradictions.

   Here is a little city that is positively Cartesian in the logic
of its layout. A grid of broad streets covers two square miles,
punctuated by 21 squares, each with a statue, fountain or gazebo.
Yet the rectilinear regularity never palls, because the streets and
parks are shaded by magnificent live oaks, hung with garlands of
Spanish moss. Could anything be less Cartesian than Spanish moss,
with its inescapable sultry whiff of decadence?

   Here is a city whose people, rich and poor, are so steeped in
good manners _ in the smile, the soft word, the good humor of the
Old South _ that drivers of garbage trucks wave at pedestrians as
they pass. Yet there is nothing low-key or mannerly about
Savannah's horticultural trademark, the azalea, whose Technicolor
floral eruptions each spring couldn't be brasher.

   How lucky Savannah is! Lucky in its founder, Gen. James
Oglethorpe, a kind of contradiction himself as a practical
idealist. Lucky in its escape from pillage during the Civil War,
when Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman, who had sown such havoc on his
march to the sea, rode unopposed into town and wired Abraham
Lincoln on Dec. 22, 1864, ``I beg to present to you as a Christmas
gift the City of Savannah, with 150 heavy guns and plenty of
ammunition.''

   And lucky in its bad luck, too; a century of postwar poverty _
not really poverty, I guess, more a lack of prosperity _ made it
hard for the greedy to redevelop the charm out of the city in the
fearsome name of progress.

   Now the question is whether Savannah can survive its latest
stroke of good fortune: John Berendt's vivid portrait of the city,
its glories and its eccentricities, in ``Midnight in the Garden of
Good and Evil,'' published in 1994, which has spent longer on the
best-seller lists than any other nonfiction book.

   The visitors who have flocked to Savannah to compare their
impressions with Berendt's have changed the place, of course. It is
still ``off the beaten track, en route to nowhere but itself,'' to
use his phrases, but the sound of the streets is no longer ``an
overarching hush.'' Tourism increased by 9 percent last year and
appears headed for a similar increase this year.

   Savannah is the fastest-growing port on the South Atlantic
coast. A new convention center is scheduled to open late next year;
the long-vacant storefronts along Broughton Street have begun to
fill up, and The Savannah Morning News has added a regional
business section to the Sunday paper. The spanking-new airport may
be the best of its (modest) size in the nation.

   But when my wife, Betsey, and I recently returned to Savannah
for our first post-Berendt visit, the city seemed as sweetly
seductive as ever, its beauty untarnished by newfound fame and
fortune. It is still a bit provincial, self-absorbed but not
self-satisfied. There is something reasurringly relaxed about a
place that calls its minor-league baseball team the Sand Gnats.

   Like Charleston and New Orleans, Savannah still dances to
languid rhythms. In the humidity of high summer, the mood is even
drowsier, as residents retreat to their shady, jasmine-scented
gardens. If you want hustle and bustle, flash and dash, if you're
searching for the New South, try Atlanta.

   For most of its history, Savannah has been a cosmopolitan place,
as befits a seaport. Imports flow through the city and up the
Savannah River to the cities and towns of the interior, and exports
follow the same channel of commerce in the opposite direction.

   In addition to its original English settlers, it attracted,
early on, Germans, Irish Catholics, Huguenots and Sephardic Jews.
And it came to have a large black population as the influence of
Oglethorpe's antislavery views waned.

   The Sea Islands off the Georgia coast preserve a semi-indigenous
black culture, where many speak Gullah, a patois that lies
somewhere between English and certain West African tongues. Place
and family names are often African. A slave rebellion took place in
1803 at a place called Ebo Landing, named for the Ibo people of
Nigeria.

   Savannah itself is exceptionally rich in African-American
history.

   Two buildings bear witness to a struggle for dignity that has
been waged for two centuries. The First African Baptist Church
(1788), which claims to be the oldest continuously active black
church in North America, has loose floorboards beneath which
runaway slaves once hid.

   Across town stands the unadorned little Second African Baptist
Church (1802), where Sherman read the Emancipation Proclamation and
promised newly freed slaves ``40 acres and a mule.'' Almost a
century later, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. preached there
an ``I Have a Dream'' sermon that prefigured his historic speech in
Washington.

   John Wesley, the founder of Methodism, also preached in
Savannah, but his message was apparently too dour for the
colonials, and he returned to England.

   Only five years after Oglethorpe's arrival in 1733 to found the
last of the original 13 colonies, a group of Jews landed here, and
descendants of some of them, including Sheftalls and Minises,
remain prominent in Savannah's economic and cultural life. Temple
Mickve Israel, built in 1876, is the only Gothic Revival synagogue
in the United States; its interior has cast-iron cluster pillars, a
fine Spanish chandelier and good stained glass.

   The temple owns the oldest Torah in America and a valuable
collection of books and documents, including letters from
Washington, Jefferson and Madison.

   nn
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0197 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:29 ',
			header: '
A5133 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CLINTON-CHINA-HNS &LR;      06-11 1080
',
			slug: ' BC-CLINTON-CHINA-HNS ',
			headline: '
CLINTON DEFENDS `ENGAGEMENT' WITH CHINA 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ President Clinton tried Thursday to combat mounting
domestic criticism of his visit to China by casting the upcoming
mission as a ``principled and pragmatic'' effort to protect
American national interests.

   Clinton devoted part of a hurriedly-arranged address to the
National Geographic Society to defending his participation in a
15-minute official welcoming ceremony on June 27 on the edge of
Tiananmen Square _ the site of a bloody crackdown on pro-democracy
demonstrators in 1989 that left hundreds dead.

   Clinton's five-city visit _ and his brief stop on the edge of
Tiananmen Square en route to meetings in the cavernous Great Hall
of the People _ have become lightning rods for critics' complaints
about U.S.-China relations.

   ``I'm going because I think it's the right thing to do for our
country,'' the president declared without apology two weeks before
his scheduled arrival in China.

   Clinton defended the Tiananmen Square ceremony, saying:
``Protocol and honoring a nation's traditional practices should not
be confused with principle.''

   Armed Chinese troops backed by tanks killed 400 to 800 unarmed
civilians in and near the 98-acre stone-paved plaza in the heart of
Beijing on June 3-4, 1989, in a successful campaign to quell
pro-democracy demonstrations by Chinese students.

   The broad square symbolizes 5,000 years of Chinese history that
was capped by Mao Tse-tung's declaration of victory in the
communist revolution in October 1949. Mao spoke from a balcony at
the Gate of Heavenly Peace overlooking the plaza.

   Clinton, vowing to avoid ``making a symbolic point'' in order to
``make a difference,'' promised to press Chinese President Jiang
Zemin to ease political repression, free imprisoned political
prisoners and ``take concrete steps'' to preserve Tibet's heritage.

   Clinton's remarks failed to stem criticism from Democrats and
Republicans.

   Sen. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn., said Clinton's participation in
the Tiananmen Square ceremony would send the wrong signal ``given
our strong disagreement with the Chinese government over its human
rights record.''

   Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., derided Clinton's ``failed China
policy and his meager agenda,'' adding that ``the only symbolic
point he is making is that his administration sides with China's
authoritarian regime.''

   Sen. Tim Hutchinson, R-Ark., said Clinton had been ``missing in
action for five years'' on Chinese human rights abuses. He added
that a presidential visit to Tiananmen Square would be ``a betrayal
to the memory and to the noble cause of those brave young men and
women'' who were killed or imprisoned.

   Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., said Clinton's ``engagement of China
appears more like capitulation.''

   Gary Bauer, leader of the conservative Family Research Council,
said the White House had ``an all-carrot policy (with) no stick''
that emphasizes corporate profit margins in China over correcting
human rights abuses.

   The Republican-led House adopted a non-binding resolution on
June 4 on a vote of 305 to 116 urging Clinton to forego the
official welcoming ceremony in Tiananmen Square.

   Clinton insisted his policy of so-called constructive engagement
with China's communist government has paid off.

   Chinese authorities are working with the United States and other
nations to stem a threatened nuclear arms race between India and
Pakistan, ease tensions with North Korea and bolster the worldwide
economy against the Asian financial crisis, Clinton said.

   Beijing has signed four worldwide arms control accords to reduce
the threat of nuclear, chemical and biological warfare, and has
ended nuclear energy cooperation with Iran and Pakistan that could
have advanced their nuclear weapons' programs, the president said.

   Clinton said he had charted a course that is ``both principled
and pragmatic _ expanding our areas of cooperation with China,
while dealing forthrightly with our differences.''

   ``This principled, pragmatic approach has produced significant
results,'' he said.

   Clinton pointed to the prospects for expanded U.S. trade with
China, a nation of 1.2 billion people with an economic growth rate
of roughly 10 percent per year for the past 20 years.

   Blossoming U.S. trade with China _ amounting to $75.4 billion in
two-way trade in 1997 _ will ``support hundreds of thousands of
jobs all across our country,'' Clinton said.

   Trade between the two nations accounts for only 13 percent of
U.S. trade with Asia _ and 4.7 percent of U.S. trade worldwide.

   &QL; 

   &QL;

   Clinton conceded that there is serious disagreement between the
White House and some Republicans and Democrats over the best way to
encourage Beijing to become more democratic. While Clinton favors
continued dealings with Chinese authorities, some Republicans and
Democrats favor the imposition of economic penalties to steer
Chinese authorities toward greater democracy and individual
freedom.

   ``The question we Americans must answer is not whether we
support human rights in China _ surely, all of us do _ but rather,
`What is the best way to advance them?''' Clinton said.

   Clinton's address was the latest part of a multifaceted
public-relations campaign to recast the domestic debate over U.S.
policy toward China.

   Secretary of State Madeleine Albright urged the Congress on
Wednesday to join the White House in a new partnership to forge
bipartisan foreign policy without the rancorous divisions that have
erupted in recent weeks.

   ``We need to be speaking with one voice and acting with
America's interests _ not partisan interests _ firmly in mind,''
Albright told reporters after conducting a closed-door meeting with
about half the Senate.

   Clinton defended his decision to take part in Tiananmen Square
welcoming ceremonies at a news conference on Tuesday with South
Korean President Kim Dae-jung. Clinton said that Chinese
authorities ``should be designing the terms of the arrival ceremony
_ not me.''

   Americans support Clinton's visit by roughly a two to one
margin, according to a CBS News poll released on Wednesday. The
poll found that 59 percent of the respondents believed Clinton
should make the trip; 32 percent said he should not go.
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients.)  
 By STEWART M. POWELL  
 c.1998 Hearst Newspapers  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ President Clinton tried Thursday to combat mounting
domestic criticism of his visit to China by casting the upcoming
mission as a ``principled and pragmatic'' effort to protect
American national interests.

   Clinton devoted part of a hurriedly-arranged address to the
National Geographic Society to defending his participation in a
15-minute official welcoming ceremony on June 27 on the edge of
Tiananmen Square _ the site of a bloody crackdown on pro-democracy
demonstrators in 1989 that left hundreds dead.

   Clinton's five-city visit _ and his brief stop on the edge of
Tiananmen Square en route to meetings in the cavernous Great Hall
of the People _ have become lightning rods for critics' complaints
about U.S.-China relations.

   ``I'm going because I think it's the right thing to do for our
country,'' the president declared without apology two weeks before
his scheduled arrival in China.

   Clinton defended the Tiananmen Square ceremony, saying:
``Protocol and honoring a nation's traditional practices should not
be confused with principle.''

   Armed Chinese troops backed by tanks killed 400 to 800 unarmed
civilians in and near the 98-acre stone-paved plaza in the heart of
Beijing on June 3-4, 1989, in a successful campaign to quell
pro-democracy demonstrations by Chinese students.

   The broad square symbolizes 5,000 years of Chinese history that
was capped by Mao Tse-tung's declaration of victory in the
communist revolution in October 1949. Mao spoke from a balcony at
the Gate of Heavenly Peace overlooking the plaza.

   Clinton, vowing to avoid ``making a symbolic point'' in order to
``make a difference,'' promised to press Chinese President Jiang
Zemin to ease political repression, free imprisoned political
prisoners and ``take concrete steps'' to preserve Tibet's heritage.

   Clinton's remarks failed to stem criticism from Democrats and
Republicans.

   Sen. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn., said Clinton's participation in
the Tiananmen Square ceremony would send the wrong signal ``given
our strong disagreement with the Chinese government over its human
rights record.''

   Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., derided Clinton's ``failed China
policy and his meager agenda,'' adding that ``the only symbolic
point he is making is that his administration sides with China's
authoritarian regime.''

   Sen. Tim Hutchinson, R-Ark., said Clinton had been ``missing in
action for five years'' on Chinese human rights abuses. He added
that a presidential visit to Tiananmen Square would be ``a betrayal
to the memory and to the noble cause of those brave young men and
women'' who were killed or imprisoned.

   Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., said Clinton's ``engagement of China
appears more like capitulation.''

   Gary Bauer, leader of the conservative Family Research Council,
said the White House had ``an all-carrot policy (with) no stick''
that emphasizes corporate profit margins in China over correcting
human rights abuses.

   The Republican-led House adopted a non-binding resolution on
June 4 on a vote of 305 to 116 urging Clinton to forego the
official welcoming ceremony in Tiananmen Square.

   Clinton insisted his policy of so-called constructive engagement
with China's communist government has paid off.

   Chinese authorities are working with the United States and other
nations to stem a threatened nuclear arms race between India and
Pakistan, ease tensions with North Korea and bolster the worldwide
economy against the Asian financial crisis, Clinton said.

   Beijing has signed four worldwide arms control accords to reduce
the threat of nuclear, chemical and biological warfare, and has
ended nuclear energy cooperation with Iran and Pakistan that could
have advanced their nuclear weapons' programs, the president said.

   Clinton said he had charted a course that is ``both principled
and pragmatic _ expanding our areas of cooperation with China,
while dealing forthrightly with our differences.''

   ``This principled, pragmatic approach has produced significant
results,'' he said.

   Clinton pointed to the prospects for expanded U.S. trade with
China, a nation of 1.2 billion people with an economic growth rate
of roughly 10 percent per year for the past 20 years.

   Blossoming U.S. trade with China _ amounting to $75.4 billion in
two-way trade in 1997 _ will ``support hundreds of thousands of
jobs all across our country,'' Clinton said.

   Trade between the two nations accounts for only 13 percent of
U.S. trade with Asia _ and 4.7 percent of U.S. trade worldwide.

   &QL; 

   &QL;

   Clinton conceded that there is serious disagreement between the
White House and some Republicans and Democrats over the best way to
encourage Beijing to become more democratic. While Clinton favors
continued dealings with Chinese authorities, some Republicans and
Democrats favor the imposition of economic penalties to steer
Chinese authorities toward greater democracy and individual
freedom.

   ``The question we Americans must answer is not whether we
support human rights in China _ surely, all of us do _ but rather,
`What is the best way to advance them?''' Clinton said.

   Clinton's address was the latest part of a multifaceted
public-relations campaign to recast the domestic debate over U.S.
policy toward China.

   Secretary of State Madeleine Albright urged the Congress on
Wednesday to join the White House in a new partnership to forge
bipartisan foreign policy without the rancorous divisions that have
erupted in recent weeks.

   ``We need to be speaking with one voice and acting with
America's interests _ not partisan interests _ firmly in mind,''
Albright told reporters after conducting a closed-door meeting with
about half the Senate.

   Clinton defended his decision to take part in Tiananmen Square
welcoming ceremonies at a news conference on Tuesday with South
Korean President Kim Dae-jung. Clinton said that Chinese
authorities ``should be designing the terms of the arrival ceremony
_ not me.''

   Americans support Clinton's visit by roughly a two to one
margin, according to a CBS News poll released on Wednesday. The
poll found that 59 percent of the respondents believed Clinton
should make the trip; 32 percent said he should not go.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0198 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:29 ',
			header: '
A5135 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-APPLE'S-SAVANNAH-ART-     06-11 1067
',
			slug: ' BC-APPLE'S-SAVANNAH-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Some of Savannah's prettiest squares and best antiques dealers
are clustered in the same neighborhood as the temple. Prices are
high, but so is quality, at places like Alex Raskin, James Morton
and De Loach. You sense something of the city's genteel traditions
in these shops, as you do at the excellent E. Shaver, a 12-room
trove of books and maps.

   Savannah supports an ambitious symphony orchestra, conducted by
Philip Greenberg; a spring Shakespeare festival in Forsyth Park and
a College of Art and Design, plus a raft of painters, potters and
other crafts people who came here to study and stayed.

   It is also home to the Telfair Museum of Art, the oldest art
museum in the South, with heroic statues of five artistic eminences
_ Rembrandt, Michelangelo, Phidias, Raphael and Rubens _ standing
guard over its Corinthian entrance porch.

   The museum's collection is a mixed bag: a lot of gloomy
19th-century Germanic kitsch, redeemed by first-rate American
Impressionists (Childe Hassam in particular) and Realists (George
Bellows, George Luks and Robert Henri, the latter represented by a
smashing, Velasquez-like portrait, ``La Madrilena,'' depicting a
young woman in a scarlet gown).

   Also worth seeing is the elegant dining room with a Duncan Phyfe
secretary and a pair of sinuous couches in cane and mahogany; a
reproduction of a handsome block-printed 1819 paper, ``Monuments of
Paris,'' covers its walls.

   At the moment, the museum is awaiting proposals for a new
building from 14 prominent architectural firms, including Hardy
Holzman Pfeiffer, James Stewart Polshek, Moshe Safdie, I.M. Pei and
Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates.

   Whoever is ultimately chosen will have to excel to match its
present palazzo-like building, which is one of the legacies of
William Jay, a young Englishman (1792-1837) who came to Savannah
and in a span of only three or four years gave the city the best
collection of Regency buildings in the United States.

   Jay's greatest building, many critics argue, is the Owens-Thomas
House, which is owned by the Telfair. Suggestive of the Regency
villas of his native Bath, with a warm stucco exterior and walled
parterre garden, and of Sir John Soane's London town house, it has
a cast-iron veranda on the south side, the first use of that
material for architectural purposes in the United States.

   Inside, a dramatic, intricate staircase rises from the ground
floor to a landing, then splits and doubles back to the second
floor. The dining-room details are immaculate: a pair of
beautifully curved doors, a plaster cornice of anthemia and a
Greek-key cutout, high on one wall, filled with amber glass that
allows sunlight to penetrate into the room. There are no proper
windows in the north wall; my wife's cousin, Ashby Angell, told us
that in the early 19th century, local people thought malaria was
caused by a miasma from the river to the north.

   My favorite Jay building is the William Scarborough House, built
for one of the owners of the Savannah, the first steamship to cross
the Atlantic. Though altered over the years, it retains its
muscularly Classical facade, and the two-story faux-marble entrance
hall, supported by four stout Doric columns and topped by a
sky-blue barrel vault, creates a powerful impression.

   The structure now houses the Ships of the Sea Maritime Museum,
which displays ship models (including a superb one of the Titanic),
scrimshaw, figureheads, navigational equipment and other things
nautical and nice.

   I learned an etymological lesson. One of the displays is a
19th-century ceramic cat, of a type placed in the windows of
brothels in European port cities. If the cat's eyes were green,
that meant come in; if they were red, that meant the house was full
or the police nearby, and if the cat's back was turned, the house
was closed. Hence, it was suggested, the term ``cat house.''

   The museum is a reminder of the enormous role the sea has played
in Savannah's history, and there will be another starting on July
2, when a dozen or so tall ships assemble in Savannah harbor. They
will take part in a weekend festival here before racing north to
Long Island and on to New London, Conn.

   You can drench yourself in good architecture here. Close to the
river, near where Oglethorpe lived, is the Customs House, whose
columns are capped with tobacco leaves instead of the more
traditional acanthus.

   Down the river toward the sea stands the rugged, moated Fort
Pulaski, which took 18 years and 25 million bricks to build but
fell in 1862 after only 30 hours of bombardment. The presumed
invulnerability of its heavy masonry was utterly demolished by 10
new guns that fired rifled projectiles instead of standard
cannonballs. They changed the course of warfare forever.

   In addition to Jay's houses, two others should not be missed:
the Davenport House Museum, a Federal gem with a lemon-yellow
entrance hall punctuated by a pair of slim Ionic pillars supporting
a graceful arch, and the Gothic Revival Green-Meldrim House, where
Sherman stayed, which is notable for iron verandas and, inside,
exuberant plaster ornamentation in a not-quite-Gothic style.

   But it is the ensemble that counts. There are now more than
1,000 restored houses, many with the side porches that low-country
folk call ``piazzas,'' some made of the distinctive ``Savannah
gray'' brick, which is actually pinkish brown, some antebellum,
some Victorian.

   Some were restored by the owners, others rescued from decades of
decay by the pioneering efforts of the Historic Savannah
Foundation, an organization of volunteers, mostly women. They
started in 1955 at the Davenport House, which had become a seedy
tenement.

   The restored neighborhoods are alive with the sights and sounds
of modern life _ a woman of classical profile pruning her
oleanders, a baby crying, a cook frying chicken at a window _ and
that lends them genuineness.

   A lyrical place, Savannah produced some lyrical sons and
daughters. You can see the graves of two of them at Bonaventure
Cemetery, not far from downtown but otherworldly all the same. The
songwriter Johnny Mercer (``Nov. 18, 1909-June 25, 1976 ... And the
Angels Sing'') and the poet Conrad Aiken (``Aug. 5, 1889-Aug. 17,
1973 ... Cosmos Mariner Destination Unknown'').

   nn
',
			body: '

  
 SAVANNAH: and Madison. 

',
			paragraphs: '
   Some of Savannah's prettiest squares and best antiques dealers
are clustered in the same neighborhood as the temple. Prices are
high, but so is quality, at places like Alex Raskin, James Morton
and De Loach. You sense something of the city's genteel traditions
in these shops, as you do at the excellent E. Shaver, a 12-room
trove of books and maps.

   Savannah supports an ambitious symphony orchestra, conducted by
Philip Greenberg; a spring Shakespeare festival in Forsyth Park and
a College of Art and Design, plus a raft of painters, potters and
other crafts people who came here to study and stayed.

   It is also home to the Telfair Museum of Art, the oldest art
museum in the South, with heroic statues of five artistic eminences
_ Rembrandt, Michelangelo, Phidias, Raphael and Rubens _ standing
guard over its Corinthian entrance porch.

   The museum's collection is a mixed bag: a lot of gloomy
19th-century Germanic kitsch, redeemed by first-rate American
Impressionists (Childe Hassam in particular) and Realists (George
Bellows, George Luks and Robert Henri, the latter represented by a
smashing, Velasquez-like portrait, ``La Madrilena,'' depicting a
young woman in a scarlet gown).

   Also worth seeing is the elegant dining room with a Duncan Phyfe
secretary and a pair of sinuous couches in cane and mahogany; a
reproduction of a handsome block-printed 1819 paper, ``Monuments of
Paris,'' covers its walls.

   At the moment, the museum is awaiting proposals for a new
building from 14 prominent architectural firms, including Hardy
Holzman Pfeiffer, James Stewart Polshek, Moshe Safdie, I.M. Pei and
Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates.

   Whoever is ultimately chosen will have to excel to match its
present palazzo-like building, which is one of the legacies of
William Jay, a young Englishman (1792-1837) who came to Savannah
and in a span of only three or four years gave the city the best
collection of Regency buildings in the United States.

   Jay's greatest building, many critics argue, is the Owens-Thomas
House, which is owned by the Telfair. Suggestive of the Regency
villas of his native Bath, with a warm stucco exterior and walled
parterre garden, and of Sir John Soane's London town house, it has
a cast-iron veranda on the south side, the first use of that
material for architectural purposes in the United States.

   Inside, a dramatic, intricate staircase rises from the ground
floor to a landing, then splits and doubles back to the second
floor. The dining-room details are immaculate: a pair of
beautifully curved doors, a plaster cornice of anthemia and a
Greek-key cutout, high on one wall, filled with amber glass that
allows sunlight to penetrate into the room. There are no proper
windows in the north wall; my wife's cousin, Ashby Angell, told us
that in the early 19th century, local people thought malaria was
caused by a miasma from the river to the north.

   My favorite Jay building is the William Scarborough House, built
for one of the owners of the Savannah, the first steamship to cross
the Atlantic. Though altered over the years, it retains its
muscularly Classical facade, and the two-story faux-marble entrance
hall, supported by four stout Doric columns and topped by a
sky-blue barrel vault, creates a powerful impression.

   The structure now houses the Ships of the Sea Maritime Museum,
which displays ship models (including a superb one of the Titanic),
scrimshaw, figureheads, navigational equipment and other things
nautical and nice.

   I learned an etymological lesson. One of the displays is a
19th-century ceramic cat, of a type placed in the windows of
brothels in European port cities. If the cat's eyes were green,
that meant come in; if they were red, that meant the house was full
or the police nearby, and if the cat's back was turned, the house
was closed. Hence, it was suggested, the term ``cat house.''

   The museum is a reminder of the enormous role the sea has played
in Savannah's history, and there will be another starting on July
2, when a dozen or so tall ships assemble in Savannah harbor. They
will take part in a weekend festival here before racing north to
Long Island and on to New London, Conn.

   You can drench yourself in good architecture here. Close to the
river, near where Oglethorpe lived, is the Customs House, whose
columns are capped with tobacco leaves instead of the more
traditional acanthus.

   Down the river toward the sea stands the rugged, moated Fort
Pulaski, which took 18 years and 25 million bricks to build but
fell in 1862 after only 30 hours of bombardment. The presumed
invulnerability of its heavy masonry was utterly demolished by 10
new guns that fired rifled projectiles instead of standard
cannonballs. They changed the course of warfare forever.

   In addition to Jay's houses, two others should not be missed:
the Davenport House Museum, a Federal gem with a lemon-yellow
entrance hall punctuated by a pair of slim Ionic pillars supporting
a graceful arch, and the Gothic Revival Green-Meldrim House, where
Sherman stayed, which is notable for iron verandas and, inside,
exuberant plaster ornamentation in a not-quite-Gothic style.

   But it is the ensemble that counts. There are now more than
1,000 restored houses, many with the side porches that low-country
folk call ``piazzas,'' some made of the distinctive ``Savannah
gray'' brick, which is actually pinkish brown, some antebellum,
some Victorian.

   Some were restored by the owners, others rescued from decades of
decay by the pioneering efforts of the Historic Savannah
Foundation, an organization of volunteers, mostly women. They
started in 1955 at the Davenport House, which had become a seedy
tenement.

   The restored neighborhoods are alive with the sights and sounds
of modern life _ a woman of classical profile pruning her
oleanders, a baby crying, a cook frying chicken at a window _ and
that lends them genuineness.

   A lyrical place, Savannah produced some lyrical sons and
daughters. You can see the graves of two of them at Bonaventure
Cemetery, not far from downtown but otherworldly all the same. The
songwriter Johnny Mercer (``Nov. 18, 1909-June 25, 1976 ... And the
Angels Sing'') and the poet Conrad Aiken (``Aug. 5, 1889-Aug. 17,
1973 ... Cosmos Mariner Destination Unknown'').

   nn
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0199 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:30 ',
			header: '
A5137 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-APPLE'S-SAVANNAH-ART-     06-11 1365
',
			slug: ' BC-APPLE'S-SAVANNAH-ART-2NDTAKE-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   All the Comforts of Savannah

   Where to Stay

   HYATT REGENCY, 2 West Bay St., (912) 238-1234, is the best hotel
in town. Its location is ideal: on the riverfront, within walking
distance of the historic district. From many of the crisp, modern
rooms you can watch big ships from Oslo and other distant ports
creep upstream to dock. The staff is fabulously friendly, with the
speediest valet-parking crew I've ever encountered. Rates:
double-occupancy rooms range from $145 to $245 on weekdays and from
$200 to $225 on weekends; suites range from $234 to $900 every day.

   BALLASTONE, 14 East Oglethorpe Ave., (912) 236-1484, was
renovated last year but maintains its antebellum refinement. Built
in 1838 and named for the stones carried in ships' holds for
stability, the Ballastone blends the old (love seats and
marble-topped tables) with the new (color televisions and VCRs in
the 18 rooms). Books and films may be borrowed at the front desk.
Rates: $155 to $255 on weekdays (Sundays through Wednesdays) and
$255 to $375 on weekends; suites, $255 on weekdays and $375 on
weekends.

   KEHOE HOUSE, 123 Habersham St., (912) 232-1020, is one of the
better bed and breakfasts in a city full of good ones. A pretty
house with superb Corinthian columns, built in 1892 for a rich
ironmonger, it shares tranquil Columbia Square with Savannah's
finest Federal building, Davenport House. Its 15 rooms are
furnished with antiques and reproductions. No smoking. Rates: $195
to $250 for any day of the week.

   MAGNOLIA PLACE, 503 Whitaker St., (912) 236-7674, faces Forsyth
Park, the leafy reserve at the heart of downtown Savannah. Many of
the 13 rooms have fireplaces, and some have Jacuzzis. The decor is
a bit too exuberant in places, but the welcome is warm, and the
beds (some of them four-posters) comfortable. Despite the
12-foot-high windows, the place has a secluded atmosphere. Rates:
$135 to $240 for any day of the week.

   Where to Eat

   ELIZABETH ON 37TH, 105 East 37th St., (912) 236-5547, housed in
an imposing Beaux-Arts mansion, is the creation of Elizabeth Terry,
one of the best chefs in the South. Her credo is simple: ``I do
comfort food. One shouldn't be embarrassed about that.'' Winners
include smoky shrimp with red-eye gravy, grouper with peanut sauce
and cucumbers. Kind and knowledgeable service, wines carefully
chosen by Michael Terry.

   BISTRO SAVANNAH, 309 West Congress St., (912) 233-6266, would be
worth visiting just for the scored and grilled flounder, or the
shrimp and tasso served over grits. The atmosphere is pleasant,
too.

   THE SAPPHIRE GRILL, 110 West Congress St., (912) 443-9962. Chris
Nason, who used to cook at Bistro Savannah, turns out delicious
dishes here: meltingly tender buttermilk-marinated calamari with
ginger and basil, better fried green tomatoes than I thought
possible. But the night we were there, the din was awful and the
lights so dim we couldn't read the menu.

   LADY &AMP; SONS, 311 West Congress St., (912) 233-2600, serves a
lunch to make calorie-counters weep: huge tumblers of sugary, minty
iced tea; rich, delectable cheese biscuits, offered by cheerful
waiters again and again until you are about to burst; creamy crab
soup laced, I think, with sherry-pepper sauce, and crisply breaded,
sparklingly fresh fried shrimp with homemade tartar sauce and great
fries. Lively salads for people with more character than I.

   MRS. WILKES'S DINING ROOM, 107 West Jones St., (912) 232-5997,
is a survivor from another age. Brimming bowls of food are
delivered to common tables and left for emptying. Pork chops, a
gazillion vegetables and banana pudding for lunch, maybe,
authentically and deliciously prepared; but breakfast is best, with
scrambled eggs, country ham, bacon, three kinds of sausage, grits
and fine, flaky biscuits. Mrs. W. presides, ever the monosyllabic
matriarch, in her plain little domain; she asks $5 for breakfast
and $10 for lunch.

   NITA'S PLACE, 140 Abercorn St., (912) 238-8233, will give you a
taste of Low Country soul food, served cafeteria style. Juanita
Dixon cooks a few dishes every day from a repertory including fried
chicken, pot roast, gumbo, macaroni and cheese, peach cobbler and
wonderfully pungent turnip greens. One thing she makes every day:
little cornbread pancakes called hoe cakes, a Savannah specialty.
Postcards from friends around the world plaster the walls; Billie
Holiday recordings set the mood, and everyone talks to everyone.

   ATTRACTIONS

   FIRST AFRICAN BAPTIST CHURCH, 23 Montgomery St., (912) 233-6597.
Free tours of the church are offered on weekdays from 10 a.m. to 4
p.m. and on Saturdays from 10 a.m. until 3:30 p.m.

   SECOND AFRICAN BAPTIST CHURCH, 123 Houston St., (912) 233-6163.
Free tours by appointment.

   TEMPLE MICKVE ISRAEL, 20 East Gordon St., (800) 728-6610. Tours
are offered weekdays from 10 a.m. to noon and from 2 to 4 p.m.;
suggested donation is $2. Services are Fridays at 8:15 p.m. and
Saturdays at 11 a.m.; a free Kiddush luncheon follows the Saturday
service.

   TELFAIR MUSEUM OF ART, 121 Barnard St., (912) 232-1177. Open
Mondays from noon to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays through Saturdays from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission, $6; $5 for the
elderly; $2 for students; $2 for children under 12. Docent tours
are offered on Mondays at 2 p.m.

   WILLIAM SCARBOROUGH HOUSE, HOUSING THE SHIPS OF THE SEA MARITIME
MUSEUM, 41 Martin Luther King Blvd., (912) 232-1511. Open Tuesdays
through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; $4 for students,
the elderly and children over 6; free for children 6 and under.

   OWENS-THOMAS HOUSE, 124 Abercorn St., (912) 233-9743. Open on
Mondays from noon to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays through Saturdays from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays from 2 to 5 p.m. Admission: $7; $6 for the
elderly; $4 for students; $2 for children. Tours every half-hour.

   DAVENPORT HOUSE MUSEUM, 119 Habersham St., (912) 236-8097. Open
Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m.
Admission: $5; $3 for those 18 and under.

   GREEN-MELDRIM HOUSE, 14 West Macon St., (912) 233-3845 or (912)
232-1251. Open for tours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Tuesdays, Thursdays,
Fridays and Saturdays. Admission: $5; $3 for students and the
elderly.

   UNITED STATES CUSTOMS HOUSE, Bull and Bay streets.

   FORT PULASKI NATIONAL MONUMENT, Highway 80 East, toward Tybee
Island, 15 miles east of Savannah, (912) 786-5787. Open daily, 8:30
a.m. to 5:15 p.m. Admission, $2; free for those 16 and under and
for the elderly with parks and recreation passes.

   BONAVENTURE CEMETERY, 330 Bonaventure Road, (912) 651-6843. Open
for self-guided tours Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
Saturdays, noon to 2 p.m.; Sundays, 2 to 4 p.m.

   ``AMERICAS' SAIL '98,'' a procession of tall ships representing
South America and the United States, begins with a shore festival
in Savannah Harbor, July 3-6. Ten tall ships will be open for
boarding by visitors, July 4-5, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; the ships will
then sail to points on Long Island. The festival coincides with
Savannah's annual Independence Day celebration, which features
music, parades and fireworks.

   SAVANNAH SYMPHONY, Savannah Civic Center, Johnny Mercer Theater,
Liberty and Montgomery streets, (912) 236-9536. Season runs from
September through May.

   SAVANNAH COLLEGE OF ART AND DESIGN, Toetter Hall, 342 Bull St.,
(912) 238-2483. Free tours available daily, 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
The college sponsors an annual arts festival the last Saturday in
April in Forsyth Park, at Gaston Street, between Drayton and
Whitaker streets. The college is sponsoring the First Savannah Film
and Video Festival on Oct. 2-10.

   ANTIQUES STORES

   Alex Raskin, 441 Bull St., (912) 232-8205.

   James Morton, 407 Abercorn St., (912) 233-9011.

   De Loach, 12 West Jones St., (912) 238-1387.

   GETTING THERE

   Continental Airlines operates a nonstop flight from Newark
International Airport, with tickets ranging from $201 for tickets
purchased 14 days in advance to $879 round-trip for next-day
travel. Information: (718) 565-1100. &QL;
',
			body: '

  
 SAVANNAH: Destination Unknown''). 

',
			paragraphs: '
   All the Comforts of Savannah

   Where to Stay

   HYATT REGENCY, 2 West Bay St., (912) 238-1234, is the best hotel
in town. Its location is ideal: on the riverfront, within walking
distance of the historic district. From many of the crisp, modern
rooms you can watch big ships from Oslo and other distant ports
creep upstream to dock. The staff is fabulously friendly, with the
speediest valet-parking crew I've ever encountered. Rates:
double-occupancy rooms range from $145 to $245 on weekdays and from
$200 to $225 on weekends; suites range from $234 to $900 every day.

   BALLASTONE, 14 East Oglethorpe Ave., (912) 236-1484, was
renovated last year but maintains its antebellum refinement. Built
in 1838 and named for the stones carried in ships' holds for
stability, the Ballastone blends the old (love seats and
marble-topped tables) with the new (color televisions and VCRs in
the 18 rooms). Books and films may be borrowed at the front desk.
Rates: $155 to $255 on weekdays (Sundays through Wednesdays) and
$255 to $375 on weekends; suites, $255 on weekdays and $375 on
weekends.

   KEHOE HOUSE, 123 Habersham St., (912) 232-1020, is one of the
better bed and breakfasts in a city full of good ones. A pretty
house with superb Corinthian columns, built in 1892 for a rich
ironmonger, it shares tranquil Columbia Square with Savannah's
finest Federal building, Davenport House. Its 15 rooms are
furnished with antiques and reproductions. No smoking. Rates: $195
to $250 for any day of the week.

   MAGNOLIA PLACE, 503 Whitaker St., (912) 236-7674, faces Forsyth
Park, the leafy reserve at the heart of downtown Savannah. Many of
the 13 rooms have fireplaces, and some have Jacuzzis. The decor is
a bit too exuberant in places, but the welcome is warm, and the
beds (some of them four-posters) comfortable. Despite the
12-foot-high windows, the place has a secluded atmosphere. Rates:
$135 to $240 for any day of the week.

   Where to Eat

   ELIZABETH ON 37TH, 105 East 37th St., (912) 236-5547, housed in
an imposing Beaux-Arts mansion, is the creation of Elizabeth Terry,
one of the best chefs in the South. Her credo is simple: ``I do
comfort food. One shouldn't be embarrassed about that.'' Winners
include smoky shrimp with red-eye gravy, grouper with peanut sauce
and cucumbers. Kind and knowledgeable service, wines carefully
chosen by Michael Terry.

   BISTRO SAVANNAH, 309 West Congress St., (912) 233-6266, would be
worth visiting just for the scored and grilled flounder, or the
shrimp and tasso served over grits. The atmosphere is pleasant,
too.

   THE SAPPHIRE GRILL, 110 West Congress St., (912) 443-9962. Chris
Nason, who used to cook at Bistro Savannah, turns out delicious
dishes here: meltingly tender buttermilk-marinated calamari with
ginger and basil, better fried green tomatoes than I thought
possible. But the night we were there, the din was awful and the
lights so dim we couldn't read the menu.

   LADY &AMP; SONS, 311 West Congress St., (912) 233-2600, serves a
lunch to make calorie-counters weep: huge tumblers of sugary, minty
iced tea; rich, delectable cheese biscuits, offered by cheerful
waiters again and again until you are about to burst; creamy crab
soup laced, I think, with sherry-pepper sauce, and crisply breaded,
sparklingly fresh fried shrimp with homemade tartar sauce and great
fries. Lively salads for people with more character than I.

   MRS. WILKES'S DINING ROOM, 107 West Jones St., (912) 232-5997,
is a survivor from another age. Brimming bowls of food are
delivered to common tables and left for emptying. Pork chops, a
gazillion vegetables and banana pudding for lunch, maybe,
authentically and deliciously prepared; but breakfast is best, with
scrambled eggs, country ham, bacon, three kinds of sausage, grits
and fine, flaky biscuits. Mrs. W. presides, ever the monosyllabic
matriarch, in her plain little domain; she asks $5 for breakfast
and $10 for lunch.

   NITA'S PLACE, 140 Abercorn St., (912) 238-8233, will give you a
taste of Low Country soul food, served cafeteria style. Juanita
Dixon cooks a few dishes every day from a repertory including fried
chicken, pot roast, gumbo, macaroni and cheese, peach cobbler and
wonderfully pungent turnip greens. One thing she makes every day:
little cornbread pancakes called hoe cakes, a Savannah specialty.
Postcards from friends around the world plaster the walls; Billie
Holiday recordings set the mood, and everyone talks to everyone.

   ATTRACTIONS

   FIRST AFRICAN BAPTIST CHURCH, 23 Montgomery St., (912) 233-6597.
Free tours of the church are offered on weekdays from 10 a.m. to 4
p.m. and on Saturdays from 10 a.m. until 3:30 p.m.

   SECOND AFRICAN BAPTIST CHURCH, 123 Houston St., (912) 233-6163.
Free tours by appointment.

   TEMPLE MICKVE ISRAEL, 20 East Gordon St., (800) 728-6610. Tours
are offered weekdays from 10 a.m. to noon and from 2 to 4 p.m.;
suggested donation is $2. Services are Fridays at 8:15 p.m. and
Saturdays at 11 a.m.; a free Kiddush luncheon follows the Saturday
service.

   TELFAIR MUSEUM OF ART, 121 Barnard St., (912) 232-1177. Open
Mondays from noon to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays through Saturdays from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission, $6; $5 for the
elderly; $2 for students; $2 for children under 12. Docent tours
are offered on Mondays at 2 p.m.

   WILLIAM SCARBOROUGH HOUSE, HOUSING THE SHIPS OF THE SEA MARITIME
MUSEUM, 41 Martin Luther King Blvd., (912) 232-1511. Open Tuesdays
through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; $4 for students,
the elderly and children over 6; free for children 6 and under.

   OWENS-THOMAS HOUSE, 124 Abercorn St., (912) 233-9743. Open on
Mondays from noon to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays through Saturdays from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays from 2 to 5 p.m. Admission: $7; $6 for the
elderly; $4 for students; $2 for children. Tours every half-hour.

   DAVENPORT HOUSE MUSEUM, 119 Habersham St., (912) 236-8097. Open
Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m.
Admission: $5; $3 for those 18 and under.

   GREEN-MELDRIM HOUSE, 14 West Macon St., (912) 233-3845 or (912)
232-1251. Open for tours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Tuesdays, Thursdays,
Fridays and Saturdays. Admission: $5; $3 for students and the
elderly.

   UNITED STATES CUSTOMS HOUSE, Bull and Bay streets.

   FORT PULASKI NATIONAL MONUMENT, Highway 80 East, toward Tybee
Island, 15 miles east of Savannah, (912) 786-5787. Open daily, 8:30
a.m. to 5:15 p.m. Admission, $2; free for those 16 and under and
for the elderly with parks and recreation passes.

   BONAVENTURE CEMETERY, 330 Bonaventure Road, (912) 651-6843. Open
for self-guided tours Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
Saturdays, noon to 2 p.m.; Sundays, 2 to 4 p.m.

   ``AMERICAS' SAIL '98,'' a procession of tall ships representing
South America and the United States, begins with a shore festival
in Savannah Harbor, July 3-6. Ten tall ships will be open for
boarding by visitors, July 4-5, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; the ships will
then sail to points on Long Island. The festival coincides with
Savannah's annual Independence Day celebration, which features
music, parades and fireworks.

   SAVANNAH SYMPHONY, Savannah Civic Center, Johnny Mercer Theater,
Liberty and Montgomery streets, (912) 236-9536. Season runs from
September through May.

   SAVANNAH COLLEGE OF ART AND DESIGN, Toetter Hall, 342 Bull St.,
(912) 238-2483. Free tours available daily, 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
The college sponsors an annual arts festival the last Saturday in
April in Forsyth Park, at Gaston Street, between Drayton and
Whitaker streets. The college is sponsoring the First Savannah Film
and Video Festival on Oct. 2-10.

   ANTIQUES STORES

   Alex Raskin, 441 Bull St., (912) 232-8205.

   James Morton, 407 Abercorn St., (912) 233-9011.

   De Loach, 12 West Jones St., (912) 238-1387.

   GETTING THERE

   Continental Airlines operates a nonstop flight from Newark
International Airport, with tickets ranging from $201 for tickets
purchased 14 days in advance to $879 round-trip for next-day
travel. Information: (718) 565-1100. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0200 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:31 ',
			header: '
A5139 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-AT-THE-MOVIES-930(2TA     06-11 0967
',
			slug: ' BC-AT-THE-MOVIES-930(2TAKES)-NYT ',
			headline: '
ANOTHER TAKE ON MEDIA POWER  
 ART AND REALITY  
 ANGST IN L.A. 
',
			trailer: '
   HOLLYWOOD _ Next to asteroids and aliens, one of the more
persistent preoccupations of the movies has come to be the media,
or, more precisely, the corrupting power of the media. Just look at
``The Truman Show,'' the runaway hit starring Jim Carrey, in which
a television studio places an unsuspecting boy in a make-believe
world and broadcasts his entire life on the small screen, live.

   Superficially, at least, ``ed TV,'' a movie being filmed here,
strikes a similar theme: A video-store clerk is chosen to have his
life broadcast live on cable television. But the similarities end
there for a movie that uses a contemporary issue to explore the
old-fashioned theme of the fragile fabric of family life.

   ``I'm encouraged by the success of their movie,'' Babaloo
Mandel, one of the writers of ``ed TV,'' said of ``The Truman
Show.'' ``Our movie is about debunking family myths, about what
happens when they really look at themselves for what they are.''

   Ron Howard is the director of ``ed TV,'' and the cast includes
Matthew McConaughey, Jenna Elfman, Woody Harrelson, Ellen
DeGeneres, Sally Kirkland and Martin Landau.

   In the hands of the movie's writers, Lowell Ganz and Mandel (who
got his moniker from a character in ``Portnoy's Complaint,'' the
novel by Philip Roth), the movie, which is scheduled for release
early next year, is not so much an allegory about the media's
intrusiveness as a look at the corrupting power of fame.

   ``The parallels with `Truman Show' will be in people's reviews
of the movie probably, but when they see it they'll realize it's
very different,'' Ganz said. ``What this is about is that nobody
wants to be nobody in America. The family has decided that this
offer from the cable channel is their chance; it's like their ship
is coming in. But once you get out there, you lose control over
it.''

   Brian Grazer, a producer of the film added: ``Yes, we show the
power of the media in this movie, but what it's really about is the
narcotic of fame. What Lowell and Babaloo really understand is
human psychology, and this movie is all about that.''

   The two screenwriters are among Hollywood's most experienced
writing teams, having done the scripts for ``City Slickers,''
``Parenthood,'' ``Splash,'' ``A League of Their Own'' and
``Multiplicity,'' among others.

   They said they have observed the perversity of fame from a
special position, since they are generally unknown to the public
but frequently spend time with Hollywood figures, like Howard, who
are instantly recognizable.

   What made them interested in the project, which is loosely based
on a Canadian movie, ``Louis 19: Le Roi des Ondes,'' was the
opportunity to examine how celebrity is pursued by people who often
mistake its influence. ``In the past, people became famous because
they were special,'' Ganz said. ``Now people are special because
they're famous. But it can be very harmful. You don't have to know
much about this business to see that.''

   Art and Reality

   By his own admission, Phil Joanou's life has been chaotic over
the last few years, but even by his somewhat crazy standards,
things got pretty weird recently on the set of the movie he is
directing. The Elvis impersonator who was about to perform a
wedding in a Las Vegas chapel for the film suddenly turned to
Joanou and said, ``Hey, little buddy, remember me?''

   ``It was the same guy who had married me,'' Joanou said. ``I
couldn't believe it.''

   But it was just another parallel between art and reality as
Joanou, a director who has made five movies about the rock group
U2, makes a movie about a director shooting a movie about U2. In
the film, the director gets married and then is hastily divorced,
said Joanou, who is also divorced.

   The film, not surprisingly, is called ``Entropy.'' It is being
produced by TriBeCa Pictures, Robert De Niro's film company, and is
expected to be released next spring. Joanou, who directed ``Final
Analysis'' earlier, has total control over the process, as writer,
producer and director.

   ``I've been a director for hire for a while, and I felt it's
time for me to do something that's my own, from the heart,'' said
Joanou, a bundle of rock 'n' roll energy. ``I sat down and, like
they say in writing class, wrote from what I knew.''

   The director in the movie, played by Stephen Dorff, first gets a
big break directing a major studio picture, and gets the girl of
his dreams. In a short time, he loses the job for punching out the
producer. ``Some people think it's true,'' Joanou said. ``I can't
comment.''

   Not surprisingly, the director also loses the girl, played by
Judith Godreche. U2, whose members actually appear in the movie,
rides to the rescue. They enlist the director to do a movie about
their tour.

   That sets him on a dizzying ride in which he meets and marries
another woman (hence the Elvis wedding meister) and then splits up
with her, only to find that the U2 members have broadcast the
wedding video on a giant screen while they are playing a concert,
all of which, in fact, happened to Joanou.

   Bad timing. The director's first love is in the audience, having
come to win him back. She sees the wedding video, gets upset and
flees to Paris. Joanou said the director pursued her, but he would
not describe the ending. He added that it was a delight to be able
to take the project wherever he liked. ``Like last night,'' he
said. ``I rewrote the scene we were shooting today, and I didn't
have to show it to anybody. This is a great way to work.''

   nn

   Angst in L.A.

   Sandra Tsing Loh has built a career as a sort of postmodern
humorist with a distinctly Southern California voice and a powerful
sense of irony about Los Angeles, a city that is something of an
irony-free zone. In a place in which there is a shared ambition of
reaching ever higher levels of self-loving, she has cultivated a
finely honed sense of self-loathing, which is evident in the fact
that one of her favorite targets is the cultural wasteland of the
San Fernando Valley, which happens to be where she lives.

   Ms. Loh also frequently mocks what is probably the most highly
regarded institution among residents here, particularly ambitious
writers: Hollywood. And so what is one to make of the fact that Ms.
Loh is now writing a screenplay for Dreamworks SKG?

   She is adapting a short story she wrote, ``Raiding the Larder,''
about three 30-something women in search of love who give up on men
their own age and look to a college campus in pursuit of younger
mates. It is an exploration of one of Ms. Loh's favorite topics,
angst among singles in L.A.

   ``Yeah ... no ... it is,'' Ms. Loh said. ``OK, it's ironic that
I'm doing this. But don't worry, there'll always be something wrong
with me. I'll go to a meeting with the wrong shoes. There will be
reasons to self-loathe.''

   She insisted that selling the script had particular meaning for
her personal development and career. ``Because I'm now in the
Writers Guild, I have health coverage for the first time!'' she
said. ``That's the real breakthrough here. This is big.''

   Ms. Loh established her reputation writing a column for Buzz
magazine. She has now published three books, including ``Depth
Takes a Holiday''; writes a weekly essay, ``The Loh Life,'' for
KCRW, the local public radio station, and has done two one-woman
shows on stage in New York.

   Writing the film script, she said, has been a challenge in part
because of the weather. ``I had this dream I'd sit by the pool and
write on my laptop, but the weather's been too cold,'' she said.
Ms. Loh added that it has been hard to write comedy from Los
Angeles when the comic world is so New York-oriented.

   ``The great feature of your life here is that you want to be an
intellectual, but you're not tough enough to live in New York,''
Ms. Loh said. ``You know you'll never be deep because you live in
L.A., even if you do wear black. That's our struggle, in the end.''
',
			body: '


  (lb) 
 By JAMES STERNGOLD   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   HOLLYWOOD _ Next to asteroids and aliens, one of the more
persistent preoccupations of the movies has come to be the media,
or, more precisely, the corrupting power of the media. Just look at
``The Truman Show,'' the runaway hit starring Jim Carrey, in which
a television studio places an unsuspecting boy in a make-believe
world and broadcasts his entire life on the small screen, live.

   Superficially, at least, ``ed TV,'' a movie being filmed here,
strikes a similar theme: A video-store clerk is chosen to have his
life broadcast live on cable television. But the similarities end
there for a movie that uses a contemporary issue to explore the
old-fashioned theme of the fragile fabric of family life.

   ``I'm encouraged by the success of their movie,'' Babaloo
Mandel, one of the writers of ``ed TV,'' said of ``The Truman
Show.'' ``Our movie is about debunking family myths, about what
happens when they really look at themselves for what they are.''

   Ron Howard is the director of ``ed TV,'' and the cast includes
Matthew McConaughey, Jenna Elfman, Woody Harrelson, Ellen
DeGeneres, Sally Kirkland and Martin Landau.

   In the hands of the movie's writers, Lowell Ganz and Mandel (who
got his moniker from a character in ``Portnoy's Complaint,'' the
novel by Philip Roth), the movie, which is scheduled for release
early next year, is not so much an allegory about the media's
intrusiveness as a look at the corrupting power of fame.

   ``The parallels with `Truman Show' will be in people's reviews
of the movie probably, but when they see it they'll realize it's
very different,'' Ganz said. ``What this is about is that nobody
wants to be nobody in America. The family has decided that this
offer from the cable channel is their chance; it's like their ship
is coming in. But once you get out there, you lose control over
it.''

   Brian Grazer, a producer of the film added: ``Yes, we show the
power of the media in this movie, but what it's really about is the
narcotic of fame. What Lowell and Babaloo really understand is
human psychology, and this movie is all about that.''

   The two screenwriters are among Hollywood's most experienced
writing teams, having done the scripts for ``City Slickers,''
``Parenthood,'' ``Splash,'' ``A League of Their Own'' and
``Multiplicity,'' among others.

   They said they have observed the perversity of fame from a
special position, since they are generally unknown to the public
but frequently spend time with Hollywood figures, like Howard, who
are instantly recognizable.

   What made them interested in the project, which is loosely based
on a Canadian movie, ``Louis 19: Le Roi des Ondes,'' was the
opportunity to examine how celebrity is pursued by people who often
mistake its influence. ``In the past, people became famous because
they were special,'' Ganz said. ``Now people are special because
they're famous. But it can be very harmful. You don't have to know
much about this business to see that.''

   Art and Reality

   By his own admission, Phil Joanou's life has been chaotic over
the last few years, but even by his somewhat crazy standards,
things got pretty weird recently on the set of the movie he is
directing. The Elvis impersonator who was about to perform a
wedding in a Las Vegas chapel for the film suddenly turned to
Joanou and said, ``Hey, little buddy, remember me?''

   ``It was the same guy who had married me,'' Joanou said. ``I
couldn't believe it.''

   But it was just another parallel between art and reality as
Joanou, a director who has made five movies about the rock group
U2, makes a movie about a director shooting a movie about U2. In
the film, the director gets married and then is hastily divorced,
said Joanou, who is also divorced.

   The film, not surprisingly, is called ``Entropy.'' It is being
produced by TriBeCa Pictures, Robert De Niro's film company, and is
expected to be released next spring. Joanou, who directed ``Final
Analysis'' earlier, has total control over the process, as writer,
producer and director.

   ``I've been a director for hire for a while, and I felt it's
time for me to do something that's my own, from the heart,'' said
Joanou, a bundle of rock 'n' roll energy. ``I sat down and, like
they say in writing class, wrote from what I knew.''

   The director in the movie, played by Stephen Dorff, first gets a
big break directing a major studio picture, and gets the girl of
his dreams. In a short time, he loses the job for punching out the
producer. ``Some people think it's true,'' Joanou said. ``I can't
comment.''

   Not surprisingly, the director also loses the girl, played by
Judith Godreche. U2, whose members actually appear in the movie,
rides to the rescue. They enlist the director to do a movie about
their tour.

   That sets him on a dizzying ride in which he meets and marries
another woman (hence the Elvis wedding meister) and then splits up
with her, only to find that the U2 members have broadcast the
wedding video on a giant screen while they are playing a concert,
all of which, in fact, happened to Joanou.

   Bad timing. The director's first love is in the audience, having
come to win him back. She sees the wedding video, gets upset and
flees to Paris. Joanou said the director pursued her, but he would
not describe the ending. He added that it was a delight to be able
to take the project wherever he liked. ``Like last night,'' he
said. ``I rewrote the scene we were shooting today, and I didn't
have to show it to anybody. This is a great way to work.''

   nn

   Angst in L.A.

   Sandra Tsing Loh has built a career as a sort of postmodern
humorist with a distinctly Southern California voice and a powerful
sense of irony about Los Angeles, a city that is something of an
irony-free zone. In a place in which there is a shared ambition of
reaching ever higher levels of self-loving, she has cultivated a
finely honed sense of self-loathing, which is evident in the fact
that one of her favorite targets is the cultural wasteland of the
San Fernando Valley, which happens to be where she lives.

   Ms. Loh also frequently mocks what is probably the most highly
regarded institution among residents here, particularly ambitious
writers: Hollywood. And so what is one to make of the fact that Ms.
Loh is now writing a screenplay for Dreamworks SKG?

   She is adapting a short story she wrote, ``Raiding the Larder,''
about three 30-something women in search of love who give up on men
their own age and look to a college campus in pursuit of younger
mates. It is an exploration of one of Ms. Loh's favorite topics,
angst among singles in L.A.

   ``Yeah ... no ... it is,'' Ms. Loh said. ``OK, it's ironic that
I'm doing this. But don't worry, there'll always be something wrong
with me. I'll go to a meeting with the wrong shoes. There will be
reasons to self-loathe.''

   She insisted that selling the script had particular meaning for
her personal development and career. ``Because I'm now in the
Writers Guild, I have health coverage for the first time!'' she
said. ``That's the real breakthrough here. This is big.''

   Ms. Loh established her reputation writing a column for Buzz
magazine. She has now published three books, including ``Depth
Takes a Holiday''; writes a weekly essay, ``The Loh Life,'' for
KCRW, the local public radio station, and has done two one-woman
shows on stage in New York.

   Writing the film script, she said, has been a challenge in part
because of the weather. ``I had this dream I'd sit by the pool and
write on my laptop, but the weather's been too cold,'' she said.
Ms. Loh added that it has been hard to write comedy from Los
Angeles when the comic world is so New York-oriented.

   ``The great feature of your life here is that you want to be an
intellectual, but you're not tough enough to live in New York,''
Ms. Loh said. ``You know you'll never be deep because you live in
L.A., even if you do wear black. That's our struggle, in the end.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0202 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:32 ',
			header: '
A5142 &Cx1f; gen-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-STATES-BUDGETTHISISTH     06-11 0565
',
			slug: ' BC-STATES-BUDGET ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   CONNECTICUT -- Working on a story on the bankruptcy bill. Maggi

   ILLINOIS -- EEOC. Working on project. (Possible.) Wallison

   -- BRIEFS. Column for Sunday. (Working.) Wallison

   INDIANA -- STEEL. Rep. Pete Visclosky, D-Ind., condemned the
Clinton administration for not doing enough to stop South Korea
from subsidizing its steel industry. Wolfberg

   -- LUGAR. Sen. Dick Lugar, R-Ind., warned that terrorists could
attack the U.S. soon, and asked for more funds and better
coordinated efforts to combat future attacks. Stebbins

   LOUISIANA -- SMOKE. Sen. John Breaux, D-La., weighed in against
efforts to take a tougher stand in tobacco legislation beyond the
original settlement reached among 40 states last summer. Egbert

   -- BERLIN. Sen. John Breaux spoke about America's international
role on the 50th anniversary of the Berlin airlift. Egbert

   MAINE -- CHILE. Portland lawyer John O'Leary cleared his first
hurdle in his nomination as ambassador to Chile in a hearing before
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, staking out Clinton
administration positions on Chilean salmon exports and weapons
sales in South America. Kane

   MASSACHUSETTS -- IND. Working on project. Biers

   -- SCHOOLS. A look at the implications for Massachusetts of a
controversial effort to wire the nation's schools for the Internet.
(Working.) Wise

   NEVADA -- INSURANCE. A children's health insurance program
designed for poor Nevada children is close to being approved by the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The program is
scheduled to begin July 1, and it is expected to provide health
insurance coverage for about 43,000 uninsured children. Preston

   -- TERRORIST. The Nevada Test Site is one of five facilities
across the country that will help teach emergency personnel how to
prevent and respond to acts of terrorism. Representatives from each
of the facilities joined a group of senators and officials from the
Department of Justice in Washington Thursday to sign the National
Domestic Preparedness Consortium. Preston

   OHIO -- LIVESTOCK. Meat industry representatives say farmers are
not getting the best prices for their hogs and cows because some
meat packers do not disclose their sales prices. They told the
Senate Agriculture Committee on Wednesday that packers should face
mandatory sales reporting regulations so that farmers can get the
best possible deal. Hurt

   -- KYOTO. (FRIDAY, for the WEEKEND.) A new report, sponsored by
the American Petroleum Institute, says Ohio will lose more than
100,000 jobs if the U.S. ratifies the Kyoto treaty on global
warming. The White House, Ohio EPA and environmental groups dispute
those findings with their own studies. Ohio ranks third in
production of greenhouse gases after California and Texas, and will
face tougher emissions regulations if the treaty is ratified. This
story looks into that debate. Barton and Herard

   -- NEWARK. (FRIDAY or MONDAY.) Looking into the revitalization
of a city ... what federal resources are available? What have other
cities done? Eckstein

   VIRGIN ISLANDS -- FEES. A Senate committee is holding a hearing
this afternoon on the impacts of fee increases at national parks
and other federal lands. (Working.) Williams

   -30-
',
			body: '

  THIS IS THE STATES NEWS SERVICE BUDGET FOR JUNE
11, 1998. IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS, PLEASE CALL US AT
202-628-3100.

',
			paragraphs: '
   CONNECTICUT -- Working on a story on the bankruptcy bill. Maggi

   ILLINOIS -- EEOC. Working on project. (Possible.) Wallison

   -- BRIEFS. Column for Sunday. (Working.) Wallison

   INDIANA -- STEEL. Rep. Pete Visclosky, D-Ind., condemned the
Clinton administration for not doing enough to stop South Korea
from subsidizing its steel industry. Wolfberg

   -- LUGAR. Sen. Dick Lugar, R-Ind., warned that terrorists could
attack the U.S. soon, and asked for more funds and better
coordinated efforts to combat future attacks. Stebbins

   LOUISIANA -- SMOKE. Sen. John Breaux, D-La., weighed in against
efforts to take a tougher stand in tobacco legislation beyond the
original settlement reached among 40 states last summer. Egbert

   -- BERLIN. Sen. John Breaux spoke about America's international
role on the 50th anniversary of the Berlin airlift. Egbert

   MAINE -- CHILE. Portland lawyer John O'Leary cleared his first
hurdle in his nomination as ambassador to Chile in a hearing before
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, staking out Clinton
administration positions on Chilean salmon exports and weapons
sales in South America. Kane

   MASSACHUSETTS -- IND. Working on project. Biers

   -- SCHOOLS. A look at the implications for Massachusetts of a
controversial effort to wire the nation's schools for the Internet.
(Working.) Wise

   NEVADA -- INSURANCE. A children's health insurance program
designed for poor Nevada children is close to being approved by the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The program is
scheduled to begin July 1, and it is expected to provide health
insurance coverage for about 43,000 uninsured children. Preston

   -- TERRORIST. The Nevada Test Site is one of five facilities
across the country that will help teach emergency personnel how to
prevent and respond to acts of terrorism. Representatives from each
of the facilities joined a group of senators and officials from the
Department of Justice in Washington Thursday to sign the National
Domestic Preparedness Consortium. Preston

   OHIO -- LIVESTOCK. Meat industry representatives say farmers are
not getting the best prices for their hogs and cows because some
meat packers do not disclose their sales prices. They told the
Senate Agriculture Committee on Wednesday that packers should face
mandatory sales reporting regulations so that farmers can get the
best possible deal. Hurt

   -- KYOTO. (FRIDAY, for the WEEKEND.) A new report, sponsored by
the American Petroleum Institute, says Ohio will lose more than
100,000 jobs if the U.S. ratifies the Kyoto treaty on global
warming. The White House, Ohio EPA and environmental groups dispute
those findings with their own studies. Ohio ranks third in
production of greenhouse gases after California and Texas, and will
face tougher emissions regulations if the treaty is ratified. This
story looks into that debate. Barton and Herard

   -- NEWARK. (FRIDAY or MONDAY.) Looking into the revitalization
of a city ... what federal resources are available? What have other
cities done? Eckstein

   VIRGIN ISLANDS -- FEES. A Senate committee is holding a hearing
this afternoon on the impacts of fee increases at national parks
and other federal lands. (Working.) Williams

   -30-
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0203 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:33 ',
			header: '
A5143 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MET-KOREA-GALLERY-2TA     06-11 0903
',
			slug: ' BC-MET-KOREA-GALLERY-2TAKES-NYT ',
			headline: '
A JEWEL BOX OF KOREAN CULTURE 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ The new Arts of Korea Gallery at the Metropolitan
Museum is a compact, glowing lantern of a room, human-scaled and
filled with lustrous things. And its opening brings to successful
conclusion the Met's long-held master plan to gather the major
cultures of eastern and southern Asia in a wide institutional
embrace.

   Of these cultures, Korea's may be the least familiar, even to
people conversant with Asian art. But it certainly puts its best
foot forward here, in a celebratory inaugural exhibition that
includes works from the Met's holdings, but that is made up
primarily of dozens of stellar, short-term loans from South Korea.

   Among the 100 pieces on view are 22 examples of sculpture,
lacquerware, painting and ceramics designated national treasures by
the South Korean government. Individually, they have earned their
status through their beauty or rarity, or both. Together they give
at least some sense of the country's art through a millennium and a
half of its history.

   The contours of that history are suggested by the gallery,
designed by the architect Kyu Sung Woo. Its placement between the
museum's august displays of Chinese and Indian art links Korea to
both of those shaping traditions. At the same time, the room's
modest size and spare, almost astringent linen-white decor sets it
apart from its surroundings as if underscoring the self-sufficiency
of Korea's indigenous traditions.

   Those traditions can sometimes be hard to spot and define,
particularly under the pervasive, elemental impact of China. The
Korean peninsula literally emerges from northern China and
stretches down to face the mainland across the Yellow Sea. So it is
no surprise that the smaller country's interaction with its
magnetic neighbor was frequent and prolonged.

   The earliest pieces in the show distantly echo Chinese Neolithic
forms, and the connections become both specific and complex
beginning with the art produced during Korea's Three Kingdoms
period (57 B.C.-668 A.D.), when the country was divided among a
trio of dynastic powers _ the Koguryo, the Paekche and the Silla _
and a federation of tribal states.

   Each group absorbed Chinese influences at different speeds and
customized them in inventive ways. The relief image of a mountain
range on a 7th-century building tile from the Paekche kingdom, for
example, confirms the existence in Korea of landscape depictions at
roughly the same time they were emerging in Chinese painting. But
the near-abstract peaks on the earthenware tile, curved like
cookies and wearing tiny headdress trees, look like nothing
imagined in China.

   The arrival of Buddhist art, which moved in a time-released
fashion from India to China, and from China eastward, brought Korea
decisively into a pan-Asian cultural sphere. And it is Buddhism
that provides a binding thread for the Met's Asian collection,
allowing viewers to leap continents and centuries as they trace the
religion's episodic route from one gallery to another.

   To find a model for a chunky little 7th-century bronze Healing
Buddha from Korea, with his form-fitting robe and hip-slung pose,
one has only to seek out a magnificent 5th-century Gupta sculpture
in the Indian galleries next door. And another Korean Buddha, this
one dressed in an elaborate layered-look, has unmistakable ties to
the central figure in a resplendent gilt-bronze altar shrine only a
few steps away in the Met's Chinese collection.

   A constellation of affinities converge in a 6th-century seated
bronze Maitreya, or Buddha of the future, on loan from the National
Museum of Korea in Seoul. The icon is one of the show's outstanding
entries.

   Versions of this figure, with his pretty crown and tender,
downcast gaze, appeared not only in China a century earlier in
monastic caves, but also as carved wooden sculptures in Japan a
century later, probably thanks to Korea's example.

   This dynamic of exchange and inflection is also evident in the
precious handful of Buddhist paintings in the exhibition, the
earliest of which dates from Korea's Koryo dynasty (918-1392).
Among the finest is a 14th-century hanging scroll from the Met's
collection depicting the bodhisattva, or heavenly being, known as
Avalokiteshvara, protector of travelers and saver of souls.

   The androgynous figure is Chinese to the core. And with his
tapering fingers and gossamer veil picked out in gold filigree, he
suggests a princely fashion plate as much as a devotional icon.
This blurring of the spiritual and the secular is also evident in
religious objects like an exquisite lacquerware box covered with
mother-of-pearl flowers that has long been identified as a
cosmetics case but may be an incense box.

   A predominantly secular art form associated with the Koryo
period, jade-green celadon inlaid with black-and-white decoration,
was one of the great innovations of Korean art. The inlay
technique, using a white paste made of crushed quartz, was
difficult and exacting, but it resulted in ineffably graceful
depictions of the natural world. On one 12th-century vase, genteel
couples relax in gardens full of jumbo-size blossoms and twisty
scholar's rocks; on a jar from the late 13th- or early 14th-century
clouds and cranes seem to dance pointe.

   nn

   The social climate that sponsored these ultra-refined luxury
items eventually gave way to the reformist zeal of the new social
and military elite of the Choson dynasty (1392-1910). Buddhism was
dislodged as the state religion (though it continued to be popular,
as an 18th-century painting of a somewhat buttoned-up-looking
Avalokiteshvara, done in vermilion and malachite green, attests).
In its place, Confucianism, with its reverence for civic order and
material austerity, was promoted.

   Despite a dynastic style based on restraint and material
simplicity, the Choson period is jumpy with contradictions. It
perpetuated Chinese traditions, but it also shaped up as the
breakaway moment of Korea's national self-definition, the formative
period of its modern culture. All of these impulses flow in
alternating currents through the era's art.

   The 15th and 16th centuries produced the uniquely home-grown
ceramic style called Punch'ong ware, distinguished by its
improvisatory, rough-and-tumble designs, as one sees in a bottle
with a custardy slip swiped on in bold gestural strokes. Then
all-white porcelains, sometimes tinted a skim-milk blue or blushed
with orange, enjoyed a vogue.

   A big, bulbous jar in the show, fashioned from two bowls joined
at the rim (an apt visual metaphor for Confucian balance and
unity), is a textbook classic of its kind.

   Painting also experienced changes in fashion. The earliest
surviving Choson ink-and-brush landscapes stick to Chinese motifs.
But later the Korean artist Chong Son (1676-1759) invented the
``true-view'' landscape, which took local terrain _ sacred
mountains, historic landmarks, tourist sights _ as its subjects.

   Genre painting also came into its own, bringing everyday life
into art, as in a charming snapshot-like sketch of an off-duty
courtesan smoking a pipe, by the artist Sin Yun-bok, who lived into
the 19th century. The only major style of painting missing in the
show is the brightly colored Choson landscapes, whose stylized,
hard-edge forms harken back to the 7th-century Paekche tile.

   But one gets an inkling of their very un-Confucian visual pizazz
in the meticulously painted patch of embroidery worn by an official
in a 17th-century portrait.

   The ``Arts of Korea'' exhibition _ organized by Wen C. Fong,
consultative chairman in the Met's department of Asian art, and
Chung Yang-mo, Director General of the National Museum of Korea,
along with Judith G. Smith, special assistant to Fong, and
Hongkyung Anna Suh, a curatorial assistant at the Met _ reaches a
chronological end with Choson painting, though the continuing
vitality of Korean art and its recent high profile in a
contemporary international context are well known.

   That visibility has not yet carried over to the country's
classical art, though the establishment of displays like the Met's
should certainly go a long way toward correcting the oversight.

   (The Brooklyn Museum of Art, it is also worth noting, has a
small but choice selection of Korean art on permanent view.) And
for New Yorkers, the debut of the Arts of Korea Gallery must be
counted doubly auspicious, not only for revealing an overlooked
tradition, but for placing at their fingertips a grand and
comprehensive view of Asia's luminous art. &QL; 
 &QL;

   (italics)``Arts of Korea'' remains at the Metropolitan Museum of
Art, Fifth Avenue at 82d Street, through Jan. 24, 1999. The
permanent Arts of Korea Gallery has been sponsored by the Korea
Foundation and the Kun-Hee Lee Fund for Korean Art; the loan
exhibition has been sponsored by the Samsug Foundation of Culture
and by LG, a South Korean-based international conglomerate.(end
italics)
',
			body: '


   (af)  
 By HOLLAND COTTER   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ The new Arts of Korea Gallery at the Metropolitan
Museum is a compact, glowing lantern of a room, human-scaled and
filled with lustrous things. And its opening brings to successful
conclusion the Met's long-held master plan to gather the major
cultures of eastern and southern Asia in a wide institutional
embrace.

   Of these cultures, Korea's may be the least familiar, even to
people conversant with Asian art. But it certainly puts its best
foot forward here, in a celebratory inaugural exhibition that
includes works from the Met's holdings, but that is made up
primarily of dozens of stellar, short-term loans from South Korea.

   Among the 100 pieces on view are 22 examples of sculpture,
lacquerware, painting and ceramics designated national treasures by
the South Korean government. Individually, they have earned their
status through their beauty or rarity, or both. Together they give
at least some sense of the country's art through a millennium and a
half of its history.

   The contours of that history are suggested by the gallery,
designed by the architect Kyu Sung Woo. Its placement between the
museum's august displays of Chinese and Indian art links Korea to
both of those shaping traditions. At the same time, the room's
modest size and spare, almost astringent linen-white decor sets it
apart from its surroundings as if underscoring the self-sufficiency
of Korea's indigenous traditions.

   Those traditions can sometimes be hard to spot and define,
particularly under the pervasive, elemental impact of China. The
Korean peninsula literally emerges from northern China and
stretches down to face the mainland across the Yellow Sea. So it is
no surprise that the smaller country's interaction with its
magnetic neighbor was frequent and prolonged.

   The earliest pieces in the show distantly echo Chinese Neolithic
forms, and the connections become both specific and complex
beginning with the art produced during Korea's Three Kingdoms
period (57 B.C.-668 A.D.), when the country was divided among a
trio of dynastic powers _ the Koguryo, the Paekche and the Silla _
and a federation of tribal states.

   Each group absorbed Chinese influences at different speeds and
customized them in inventive ways. The relief image of a mountain
range on a 7th-century building tile from the Paekche kingdom, for
example, confirms the existence in Korea of landscape depictions at
roughly the same time they were emerging in Chinese painting. But
the near-abstract peaks on the earthenware tile, curved like
cookies and wearing tiny headdress trees, look like nothing
imagined in China.

   The arrival of Buddhist art, which moved in a time-released
fashion from India to China, and from China eastward, brought Korea
decisively into a pan-Asian cultural sphere. And it is Buddhism
that provides a binding thread for the Met's Asian collection,
allowing viewers to leap continents and centuries as they trace the
religion's episodic route from one gallery to another.

   To find a model for a chunky little 7th-century bronze Healing
Buddha from Korea, with his form-fitting robe and hip-slung pose,
one has only to seek out a magnificent 5th-century Gupta sculpture
in the Indian galleries next door. And another Korean Buddha, this
one dressed in an elaborate layered-look, has unmistakable ties to
the central figure in a resplendent gilt-bronze altar shrine only a
few steps away in the Met's Chinese collection.

   A constellation of affinities converge in a 6th-century seated
bronze Maitreya, or Buddha of the future, on loan from the National
Museum of Korea in Seoul. The icon is one of the show's outstanding
entries.

   Versions of this figure, with his pretty crown and tender,
downcast gaze, appeared not only in China a century earlier in
monastic caves, but also as carved wooden sculptures in Japan a
century later, probably thanks to Korea's example.

   This dynamic of exchange and inflection is also evident in the
precious handful of Buddhist paintings in the exhibition, the
earliest of which dates from Korea's Koryo dynasty (918-1392).
Among the finest is a 14th-century hanging scroll from the Met's
collection depicting the bodhisattva, or heavenly being, known as
Avalokiteshvara, protector of travelers and saver of souls.

   The androgynous figure is Chinese to the core. And with his
tapering fingers and gossamer veil picked out in gold filigree, he
suggests a princely fashion plate as much as a devotional icon.
This blurring of the spiritual and the secular is also evident in
religious objects like an exquisite lacquerware box covered with
mother-of-pearl flowers that has long been identified as a
cosmetics case but may be an incense box.

   A predominantly secular art form associated with the Koryo
period, jade-green celadon inlaid with black-and-white decoration,
was one of the great innovations of Korean art. The inlay
technique, using a white paste made of crushed quartz, was
difficult and exacting, but it resulted in ineffably graceful
depictions of the natural world. On one 12th-century vase, genteel
couples relax in gardens full of jumbo-size blossoms and twisty
scholar's rocks; on a jar from the late 13th- or early 14th-century
clouds and cranes seem to dance pointe.

   nn

   The social climate that sponsored these ultra-refined luxury
items eventually gave way to the reformist zeal of the new social
and military elite of the Choson dynasty (1392-1910). Buddhism was
dislodged as the state religion (though it continued to be popular,
as an 18th-century painting of a somewhat buttoned-up-looking
Avalokiteshvara, done in vermilion and malachite green, attests).
In its place, Confucianism, with its reverence for civic order and
material austerity, was promoted.

   Despite a dynastic style based on restraint and material
simplicity, the Choson period is jumpy with contradictions. It
perpetuated Chinese traditions, but it also shaped up as the
breakaway moment of Korea's national self-definition, the formative
period of its modern culture. All of these impulses flow in
alternating currents through the era's art.

   The 15th and 16th centuries produced the uniquely home-grown
ceramic style called Punch'ong ware, distinguished by its
improvisatory, rough-and-tumble designs, as one sees in a bottle
with a custardy slip swiped on in bold gestural strokes. Then
all-white porcelains, sometimes tinted a skim-milk blue or blushed
with orange, enjoyed a vogue.

   A big, bulbous jar in the show, fashioned from two bowls joined
at the rim (an apt visual metaphor for Confucian balance and
unity), is a textbook classic of its kind.

   Painting also experienced changes in fashion. The earliest
surviving Choson ink-and-brush landscapes stick to Chinese motifs.
But later the Korean artist Chong Son (1676-1759) invented the
``true-view'' landscape, which took local terrain _ sacred
mountains, historic landmarks, tourist sights _ as its subjects.

   Genre painting also came into its own, bringing everyday life
into art, as in a charming snapshot-like sketch of an off-duty
courtesan smoking a pipe, by the artist Sin Yun-bok, who lived into
the 19th century. The only major style of painting missing in the
show is the brightly colored Choson landscapes, whose stylized,
hard-edge forms harken back to the 7th-century Paekche tile.

   But one gets an inkling of their very un-Confucian visual pizazz
in the meticulously painted patch of embroidery worn by an official
in a 17th-century portrait.

   The ``Arts of Korea'' exhibition _ organized by Wen C. Fong,
consultative chairman in the Met's department of Asian art, and
Chung Yang-mo, Director General of the National Museum of Korea,
along with Judith G. Smith, special assistant to Fong, and
Hongkyung Anna Suh, a curatorial assistant at the Met _ reaches a
chronological end with Choson painting, though the continuing
vitality of Korean art and its recent high profile in a
contemporary international context are well known.

   That visibility has not yet carried over to the country's
classical art, though the establishment of displays like the Met's
should certainly go a long way toward correcting the oversight.

   (The Brooklyn Museum of Art, it is also worth noting, has a
small but choice selection of Korean art on permanent view.) And
for New Yorkers, the debut of the Arts of Korea Gallery must be
counted doubly auspicious, not only for revealing an overlooked
tradition, but for placing at their fingertips a grand and
comprehensive view of Asia's luminous art. &QL; 
 &QL;

   (italics)``Arts of Korea'' remains at the Metropolitan Museum of
Art, Fifth Avenue at 82d Street, through Jan. 24, 1999. The
permanent Arts of Korea Gallery has been sponsored by the Korea
Foundation and the Kun-Hee Lee Fund for Korean Art; the loan
exhibition has been sponsored by the Samsug Foundation of Culture
and by LG, a South Korean-based international conglomerate.(end
italics)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0205 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:35 ',
			header: '
A5150 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER-AR     06-11 1110
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER-ART-2TAKES-NYT ',
			headline: '
SUMMER THEATER: OUT OF DOORS AND OFF THE WALL 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ ``Julius Caesar'' makes no mention of a wino. A Poet,
yes; a Soothsayer, of course. But there is no reference in
Shakespeare to a tipsy guy in soiled clothes who heckles Cassius
and wheezes during Marc Antony's funeral oration.

   And yet here he was on a recent evening, an attention-drawing
spectator teetering noisily in his cups, stage right, as the actors
in the Expanded Arts theater company's open-air ``Julius Caesar''
on Manhattan's Lower East Side tried to ignore the interruptions
and stay focused on the re-creation of a 2,000-year-old conspiracy
and assassination.

   ``For we will shake him, or worse days endure,'' the instigating
Cassius declared, with a double meaning on this night that
Shakespeare, that prominent producer of outdoor theater, might have
had a good chuckle over.

   ``Graaaaaaaaa!'' growled back the uninvited commentator.

   The stage in this instance being an unadorned space on Ludlow
Street, where, thanks to dispensation from the Transportation
Department, Expanded Arts performs its free Shakespeare in a
Parking Lot series, and the unexpected is always on the agenda. In
fact, the intrusions of a city alive are exactly what one has to
expect, even appreciate, when sitting down to classic drama
illuminated only by street lamps, bulbs glowing like electric
pumpkins. Neighborhood people lug groceries through the lot as
Caesar falls. They stare at you; you stare at Caesar. Rattling
garbage trucks, screaming ambulances, blaring boom boxes: this is
an alternative sound design, all right, the urban accompaniment to
theater al fresco.

   Summer is the season when theatergoers get a chance to breathe
free. Many still choose the climate-controlled respectability of
Broadway; others who frequent the close, Spartan spaces of
off-off-Broadway will have no choice but to fold their programs
into fans. The warm weather, however, provides another play-viewing
option: drama in the big outdoors, scorched by the sun or drenched
in moonlight, simmered in the growing humidity or cooled by the
gentle whispers of the night.

   It's happening all around you, at city parks and country
estates, in public spaces as famous as the Delacorte Theater in
Central Park, where the New York Shakespeare Festival's free
production of ``The Skin of Our Teeth'' is in previews, and as off
the usual theater circuit as Fort Greene Park in Brooklyn, where
next month a troupe called the Shakespeare Project is scheduled to
offer ``The Winter's Tale.''

   Take a subway out to Prospect Park, drive up the Hudson to
Garrison, N.Y., journey to Lenox, Mass., in the Berkshires, where
Tina Packer's innovative Shakespeare and Company will be performing
``The Comedy of Errors''and ``The Merchant of Venice,'' and you'll
find actors reciting 400-year-old verse as the crickets launch into
their own soliloquies.

   To inveterate playgoers, outdoor theater can automatically feel
like a mini-vacation. The quality of productions may fluctuate
greatly, but just as an ear of corn inexplicably tastes better at a
picnic table, so, too, can a run-of-the-mill version of ``As You
Like It'' seem to have a more intense flavor when the backdrop
looks like a Greenpeace brochure.

   At locations like the Boscobel Restoration in Garrison, where
the Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival presides on a breathtaking
riverside bluff, the impulse to applaud the scenery is not
necessarily a commentary on the level of performance.

   Virtually all outdoor theater is as casual as a beach party. And
often a blanket is an excellent accessory, whether it's laid out
with wine and cheese for the preshow equivalent of a tailgating
party or merely used in Central Park to cushion the wait for the
distribution of tickets to that evening's show at the Delacorte.
(The other night, a young couple even brought one to spread out on
the asphalt of Shakespeare in the Parking Lot.)

   Plays performed in the open air have other magical properties.
The most delicate of breezes, for instance, makes a garlic-soaked
seatmate tolerable. And most magically of all, they can be very
cheap dates. Many of the productions, particularly those in city
parks, are free.

   All of which helps explain the lure of outdoor drama, whose
popularity appears to be growing. In August the second New York
International Fringe Festival, an 11-day avant-garde extravaganza,
will be greatly expanding its open-air component, Fringe al Fresco.

   At least 45 outdoor productions and events will be presented,
among them, ``Goddess City,'' a rap musical, and a performance
piece in which a woman will roam the Lower East Side wearing a
wedding gown made of feathers.

   And once again this summer, Circus Amok, a traveling carnival of
offbeat acts, is making the rounds of city parks.

   Hmmm, OK. But bearded ladies and tributes to bird life
notwithstanding, why is outdoor summer theater practically
synonymous with Shakespeare? In New York City alone, five troupes _
Expanded Arts, Gorilla Repertory Theater, the Shakespeare Project,
the Kings County Shakespeare Company and the New York Shakespeare
Festival _ will present eight of his plays, including ``Love's
Labour's Lost,'' (Prospect Park, Brooklyn) ``A Midsummer Night's
Dream (Washington Square Park) and ``Cymbeline'' (Central Park).

   Terrence O'Brien, artistic director of the Hudson Valley
Shakespeare Festival, which begins performances of ``The Winter's
Tale'' at Boscobel on June 24, says that for one thing, Shakespeare
doesn't require much physical adornment; there is a completeness to
the plays that allows them to be produced simply in natural
surroundings.

   ``I think, in part, it's that in the classical literature, the
setting, the environment is all supplied in the script,'' O'Brien
said. ``When a character says, `Lay me down on this flowery bed,'
you really don't need anything to suggest it.''

   The world that O'Brien's 12-year-old company inhabits has as
little in common with Shakespeare in the Parking Lot as ``The Great
Gatsby'' shares with ``West Side Story''; the blare of a single car
horn could probably provoke ripples of outrage.

   The plays are presented under an open-sided tent pitched near
the Hudson that has the overall, mellowing impact of a cultivated
American garden. Before the sun goes down, you can see West Point
on the opposite bank.

   nn

   Here is a selection of companies offering outdoor theater
performances:

   EXPANDED ARTS presents ``Julius Caesar'' in its Shakespeare in
the Parking Lot series. The performances are in the parking lot
across the street from the Expanded Arts Theater, 85 Ludlow Street.
Admission is free; the audience should take chairs or blankets.
Other shows scheduled this summer are ``Othello'' (July 8-Aug. 3)
and ``Henry V'' (Aug. 5-28). Performances are Wednesdays through
Saturdays at 8 p.m. Reservations suggested: (212) 358-5096.

   SHAKESPEARE IN CENTRAL PARK, Delacorte Theater, from park
entrances at West 81st Street and East 79th Street. Thornton
Wilder's ``Skin of Our Teeth'' runs today through July 12, with
performances every day at 8 p.m. except June 16, 23 and 29 and July
10. Shakespeare's ``Cymbeline'' will be presented from Aug. 4 to
Aug. 30, Tuesdays through Sundays at 8 p.m. Free tickets are
distributed daily for that day's performance beginning at 1 p.m. at
both the Delacorte Theater and the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette
St., East Village. Information: (212) 539-8750.

   SHAKESPEARE AND COMPANY, Lenox, Mass., on Edith Wharton's
turn-of-the-century estate, the Mount. The season runs through Oct.
31, with 16 plays in repertory on four indoor and outdoor stages.
This weekend the company is presenting Steven Dietz's ``Private
Eyes,'' Friday night at 8; Saturday at 3:30 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at
3:30 p.m., and Shakespeare's ``All's Well That Ends Well,'' Friday
night at 8:30; Saturday at 3:30 and 8:30 p.m.; Sunday at 3:30 p.m.
Other productions this summer include Shakespeare's ``Merchant of
Venice'' (July 24 through Aug. 30) and ``The Lear Project,'' with
Olympia Dukakis (June 23 through 28). Tickets: $22.50 to $29.50.
Information: (413) 637-3353. To get to Lenox by car from the East
Side of Manhattan: Take the FDR Drive to the Major Deegan to the
Saw Mill or the Taconic Parkway. From the West Side: Take the West
Side Highway to the Saw Mill or the Taconic Parkway. From the Saw
Mill, take 684N to 22N to 23E to 7N to Stockbridge. From
Stockbridge take Route 7N five miles to the first traffic signal,
at Plunkett Street (watch for the blue highway sign on the right).
Turn right. The Mount is immediately on the right.

   CIRCUS AMOK, a series of free outdoor circus performances in
parks, parking lots, community centers and other public spaces.
Friday night at 6: United Community Center, Community Gardens, at
Schenck and Livonia Streets, Brooklyn. Saturday at 4 p.m.: Coney
Island, West 10th Street and Surf Avenue, in front of the Cyclone.
Sunday at 4 p.m.: Tompkins Square Park, Seventh Street and Avenue
A, Manhattan. Performances run through June 21. Information: (212)
477-5829, extension 315. Website: www.ps122.org.

   GORILLA REPERTORY THEATER COMPANY will present Shakespeare's
``Midsummer Night's Dream'' and Chekhov's ``Cherry Orchard'' in
repertory from July 30 through Sept. 27 in the southwest corner of
Washington Square Park, Greenwich Village. Also at the Henry Street
Settlement, outdoors in the courtyard, 466 Grand St., Lower East
Side, from Aug. 20 to Sept. 13, Shakespeare's ``Henry IV, Parts 1
and 2.'' Free. Information: (212) 330-8086.

   NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL FRINGE FESTIVAL, featuring 153
productions in 21 theaters on the Lower East Side, will take place
Aug. 19 to 30. Tickets: free for outdoor performances; inside
performances, $11. Information: (212) 307-0229.

   KINGS COUNTY SHAKESPEARE, Kings County Shakespeare Company,
Prospect Park Picnic House, Brooklyn. In repertory, Aug. 12 to 30:
Shakespeare's ``Love's Labour's Lost,'' Shakespeare's ``Pericles,''
George Farquhar's ``Beaux Stratagem.'' Tickets: $5 suggested
donation. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays
at 2 and 8 p.m. Information: (718) 596-9685.

   HUDSON VALLEY SHAKESPEARE, at Boscobel Restoration in Garrison,
N.Y., will present ``The Winter's Tale'' from June 24 through July
19, and ``Much Ado About Nothing,'' from July 22 through Aug. 16.
Performances are Wednesdays and Thursdays at 7 p.m.; Fridays and
Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Sundays at 6 p.m. Tickets: $18 to $28;
discounts for groups, students, children under 12 and the elderly.
Information: (914) 265-9575; fax, (914) 265-1037. From Manhattan by
car: Take the Taconic Parkway North to Cold Spring Exit, then route
301 west into Cold Spring, turn left at the intersection of 301 and
Route 9D. Bascobel is on the right, a little less than a mile away.
An alternate route: cross the George Washington Bridge and take the
Palisades Parkway to Bear Mountain Bridge, then turn left to Route
9D. Boscobel is eight miles away. By train: Metro North to Cold
Spring, then walk or take a taxi.

   SHAKESPEARE PROJECT will present Shakespeare's ``Winter's Tale''
in parks and public spaces throughout New York City. Call for
location. Information: (212) 946-1869. Performances, Thursdays
through Sundays at 6 p.m., begin Thursday and run through Aug. 9.
Seating is not provided; blankets are suggested.
',
			body: '


   (ART ADV: Photo is being sent to NYT photo clients. Non-subscribers
can make individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.)  
 (bl)  
 By PETER MARKS   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ ``Julius Caesar'' makes no mention of a wino. A Poet,
yes; a Soothsayer, of course. But there is no reference in
Shakespeare to a tipsy guy in soiled clothes who heckles Cassius
and wheezes during Marc Antony's funeral oration.

   And yet here he was on a recent evening, an attention-drawing
spectator teetering noisily in his cups, stage right, as the actors
in the Expanded Arts theater company's open-air ``Julius Caesar''
on Manhattan's Lower East Side tried to ignore the interruptions
and stay focused on the re-creation of a 2,000-year-old conspiracy
and assassination.

   ``For we will shake him, or worse days endure,'' the instigating
Cassius declared, with a double meaning on this night that
Shakespeare, that prominent producer of outdoor theater, might have
had a good chuckle over.

   ``Graaaaaaaaa!'' growled back the uninvited commentator.

   The stage in this instance being an unadorned space on Ludlow
Street, where, thanks to dispensation from the Transportation
Department, Expanded Arts performs its free Shakespeare in a
Parking Lot series, and the unexpected is always on the agenda. In
fact, the intrusions of a city alive are exactly what one has to
expect, even appreciate, when sitting down to classic drama
illuminated only by street lamps, bulbs glowing like electric
pumpkins. Neighborhood people lug groceries through the lot as
Caesar falls. They stare at you; you stare at Caesar. Rattling
garbage trucks, screaming ambulances, blaring boom boxes: this is
an alternative sound design, all right, the urban accompaniment to
theater al fresco.

   Summer is the season when theatergoers get a chance to breathe
free. Many still choose the climate-controlled respectability of
Broadway; others who frequent the close, Spartan spaces of
off-off-Broadway will have no choice but to fold their programs
into fans. The warm weather, however, provides another play-viewing
option: drama in the big outdoors, scorched by the sun or drenched
in moonlight, simmered in the growing humidity or cooled by the
gentle whispers of the night.

   It's happening all around you, at city parks and country
estates, in public spaces as famous as the Delacorte Theater in
Central Park, where the New York Shakespeare Festival's free
production of ``The Skin of Our Teeth'' is in previews, and as off
the usual theater circuit as Fort Greene Park in Brooklyn, where
next month a troupe called the Shakespeare Project is scheduled to
offer ``The Winter's Tale.''

   Take a subway out to Prospect Park, drive up the Hudson to
Garrison, N.Y., journey to Lenox, Mass., in the Berkshires, where
Tina Packer's innovative Shakespeare and Company will be performing
``The Comedy of Errors''and ``The Merchant of Venice,'' and you'll
find actors reciting 400-year-old verse as the crickets launch into
their own soliloquies.

   To inveterate playgoers, outdoor theater can automatically feel
like a mini-vacation. The quality of productions may fluctuate
greatly, but just as an ear of corn inexplicably tastes better at a
picnic table, so, too, can a run-of-the-mill version of ``As You
Like It'' seem to have a more intense flavor when the backdrop
looks like a Greenpeace brochure.

   At locations like the Boscobel Restoration in Garrison, where
the Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival presides on a breathtaking
riverside bluff, the impulse to applaud the scenery is not
necessarily a commentary on the level of performance.

   Virtually all outdoor theater is as casual as a beach party. And
often a blanket is an excellent accessory, whether it's laid out
with wine and cheese for the preshow equivalent of a tailgating
party or merely used in Central Park to cushion the wait for the
distribution of tickets to that evening's show at the Delacorte.
(The other night, a young couple even brought one to spread out on
the asphalt of Shakespeare in the Parking Lot.)

   Plays performed in the open air have other magical properties.
The most delicate of breezes, for instance, makes a garlic-soaked
seatmate tolerable. And most magically of all, they can be very
cheap dates. Many of the productions, particularly those in city
parks, are free.

   All of which helps explain the lure of outdoor drama, whose
popularity appears to be growing. In August the second New York
International Fringe Festival, an 11-day avant-garde extravaganza,
will be greatly expanding its open-air component, Fringe al Fresco.

   At least 45 outdoor productions and events will be presented,
among them, ``Goddess City,'' a rap musical, and a performance
piece in which a woman will roam the Lower East Side wearing a
wedding gown made of feathers.

   And once again this summer, Circus Amok, a traveling carnival of
offbeat acts, is making the rounds of city parks.

   Hmmm, OK. But bearded ladies and tributes to bird life
notwithstanding, why is outdoor summer theater practically
synonymous with Shakespeare? In New York City alone, five troupes _
Expanded Arts, Gorilla Repertory Theater, the Shakespeare Project,
the Kings County Shakespeare Company and the New York Shakespeare
Festival _ will present eight of his plays, including ``Love's
Labour's Lost,'' (Prospect Park, Brooklyn) ``A Midsummer Night's
Dream (Washington Square Park) and ``Cymbeline'' (Central Park).

   Terrence O'Brien, artistic director of the Hudson Valley
Shakespeare Festival, which begins performances of ``The Winter's
Tale'' at Boscobel on June 24, says that for one thing, Shakespeare
doesn't require much physical adornment; there is a completeness to
the plays that allows them to be produced simply in natural
surroundings.

   ``I think, in part, it's that in the classical literature, the
setting, the environment is all supplied in the script,'' O'Brien
said. ``When a character says, `Lay me down on this flowery bed,'
you really don't need anything to suggest it.''

   The world that O'Brien's 12-year-old company inhabits has as
little in common with Shakespeare in the Parking Lot as ``The Great
Gatsby'' shares with ``West Side Story''; the blare of a single car
horn could probably provoke ripples of outrage.

   The plays are presented under an open-sided tent pitched near
the Hudson that has the overall, mellowing impact of a cultivated
American garden. Before the sun goes down, you can see West Point
on the opposite bank.

   nn

   Here is a selection of companies offering outdoor theater
performances:

   EXPANDED ARTS presents ``Julius Caesar'' in its Shakespeare in
the Parking Lot series. The performances are in the parking lot
across the street from the Expanded Arts Theater, 85 Ludlow Street.
Admission is free; the audience should take chairs or blankets.
Other shows scheduled this summer are ``Othello'' (July 8-Aug. 3)
and ``Henry V'' (Aug. 5-28). Performances are Wednesdays through
Saturdays at 8 p.m. Reservations suggested: (212) 358-5096.

   SHAKESPEARE IN CENTRAL PARK, Delacorte Theater, from park
entrances at West 81st Street and East 79th Street. Thornton
Wilder's ``Skin of Our Teeth'' runs today through July 12, with
performances every day at 8 p.m. except June 16, 23 and 29 and July
10. Shakespeare's ``Cymbeline'' will be presented from Aug. 4 to
Aug. 30, Tuesdays through Sundays at 8 p.m. Free tickets are
distributed daily for that day's performance beginning at 1 p.m. at
both the Delacorte Theater and the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette
St., East Village. Information: (212) 539-8750.

   SHAKESPEARE AND COMPANY, Lenox, Mass., on Edith Wharton's
turn-of-the-century estate, the Mount. The season runs through Oct.
31, with 16 plays in repertory on four indoor and outdoor stages.
This weekend the company is presenting Steven Dietz's ``Private
Eyes,'' Friday night at 8; Saturday at 3:30 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at
3:30 p.m., and Shakespeare's ``All's Well That Ends Well,'' Friday
night at 8:30; Saturday at 3:30 and 8:30 p.m.; Sunday at 3:30 p.m.
Other productions this summer include Shakespeare's ``Merchant of
Venice'' (July 24 through Aug. 30) and ``The Lear Project,'' with
Olympia Dukakis (June 23 through 28). Tickets: $22.50 to $29.50.
Information: (413) 637-3353. To get to Lenox by car from the East
Side of Manhattan: Take the FDR Drive to the Major Deegan to the
Saw Mill or the Taconic Parkway. From the West Side: Take the West
Side Highway to the Saw Mill or the Taconic Parkway. From the Saw
Mill, take 684N to 22N to 23E to 7N to Stockbridge. From
Stockbridge take Route 7N five miles to the first traffic signal,
at Plunkett Street (watch for the blue highway sign on the right).
Turn right. The Mount is immediately on the right.

   CIRCUS AMOK, a series of free outdoor circus performances in
parks, parking lots, community centers and other public spaces.
Friday night at 6: United Community Center, Community Gardens, at
Schenck and Livonia Streets, Brooklyn. Saturday at 4 p.m.: Coney
Island, West 10th Street and Surf Avenue, in front of the Cyclone.
Sunday at 4 p.m.: Tompkins Square Park, Seventh Street and Avenue
A, Manhattan. Performances run through June 21. Information: (212)
477-5829, extension 315. Website: www.ps122.org.

   GORILLA REPERTORY THEATER COMPANY will present Shakespeare's
``Midsummer Night's Dream'' and Chekhov's ``Cherry Orchard'' in
repertory from July 30 through Sept. 27 in the southwest corner of
Washington Square Park, Greenwich Village. Also at the Henry Street
Settlement, outdoors in the courtyard, 466 Grand St., Lower East
Side, from Aug. 20 to Sept. 13, Shakespeare's ``Henry IV, Parts 1
and 2.'' Free. Information: (212) 330-8086.

   NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL FRINGE FESTIVAL, featuring 153
productions in 21 theaters on the Lower East Side, will take place
Aug. 19 to 30. Tickets: free for outdoor performances; inside
performances, $11. Information: (212) 307-0229.

   KINGS COUNTY SHAKESPEARE, Kings County Shakespeare Company,
Prospect Park Picnic House, Brooklyn. In repertory, Aug. 12 to 30:
Shakespeare's ``Love's Labour's Lost,'' Shakespeare's ``Pericles,''
George Farquhar's ``Beaux Stratagem.'' Tickets: $5 suggested
donation. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays
at 2 and 8 p.m. Information: (718) 596-9685.

   HUDSON VALLEY SHAKESPEARE, at Boscobel Restoration in Garrison,
N.Y., will present ``The Winter's Tale'' from June 24 through July
19, and ``Much Ado About Nothing,'' from July 22 through Aug. 16.
Performances are Wednesdays and Thursdays at 7 p.m.; Fridays and
Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Sundays at 6 p.m. Tickets: $18 to $28;
discounts for groups, students, children under 12 and the elderly.
Information: (914) 265-9575; fax, (914) 265-1037. From Manhattan by
car: Take the Taconic Parkway North to Cold Spring Exit, then route
301 west into Cold Spring, turn left at the intersection of 301 and
Route 9D. Bascobel is on the right, a little less than a mile away.
An alternate route: cross the George Washington Bridge and take the
Palisades Parkway to Bear Mountain Bridge, then turn left to Route
9D. Boscobel is eight miles away. By train: Metro North to Cold
Spring, then walk or take a taxi.

   SHAKESPEARE PROJECT will present Shakespeare's ``Winter's Tale''
in parks and public spaces throughout New York City. Call for
location. Information: (212) 946-1869. Performances, Thursdays
through Sundays at 6 p.m., begin Thursday and run through Aug. 9.
Seating is not provided; blankets are suggested.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0207 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:36 ',
			header: '
A5153 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-THEATER-NOTES-NYT &LR;      06-11 1048
',
			slug: ' BC-THEATER-NOTES-NYT ',
			headline: '
THEATER NOTES: `ON THE TOWN' TO PREVIEW; WRITER CHOSEN FOR SEUSS;
`CHAIRS' DIRECTOR RETURNS; PUPPET MUSICAL EVOLVES
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ The circle of life: Struggling shows drop away
(``Honour,'' ``The Diary of Anne Frank,'' ``1776,'' ``The Life,''
``The Sunshine Boys,'' ``The Last Night of Ballyhoo'') as new ones
rise to take their place.

   The Public Theater's revival of ``On the Town,'' which was
performed in the Delacorte Theater in Central Park last summer but
had difficulties transferring to Broadway when two choreographers
left the show, is now set to begin previews on Oct. 16 at the
Gershwin Theater.

   George C. Wolfe will direct the revival, as he did in the park,
and his new choreographer will be Keith Young, a former principal
dancer for Twyla Tharp who will make his Broadway choreography
debut.

   Only one bit of casting has been confirmed: Lea DeLaria will
return as the wisecracking taxi driver.

   After the Broadway success of John Leguizamo's one-man
``Freak,'' Sandra Bernhard has decided to bring her one-woman show,
``I'm Still Here . . . Damn It!,'' to the Booth Theater in
mid-October.

   ``I thought we might as well take it to the next level,'' Ms.
Bernhard said, adding that the show would be similar to the one she
performed earlier this year at the Westbeth Theater.

   ``After taking the summer off and having a baby, I imagine there
will be some new material,'' she said. ``The show evolves.''

   Gregory Mosher, one of the producers of both Leguizamo's and Ms.
Bernhard's shows, said extensive polling of the audience members at
``Freak'' showed that 93 percent were under 50 and three-quarters
under 35.

   This convinced him that, with the right marketing and the right
show, younger people could be drawn into a Broadway theater.

   ``They're there,'' Mosher said. ``That audience is really
there.''

   &UR; The Hit in the Brit?  &LR;  Eric Idle, formerly of Monty Python, will
write the book for a new musical being put together by Livent based
on the works of Dr. Seuss.

   ``Seussical,'' which will also reunite the ``Ragtime'' team of
the lyricist Lynn Ahrens, the composer Stephen Flaherty and the
director Frank Galati, is scheduled to have its first reading in
August 1999 at Livent's Summer Festival of New Works in Toronto and
a full production sometime in 2000.

   ``The hardest part was resolving the book writer, to find an
exciting comedic element but somebody who had great humanity and
understands the Seussian world,'' said Garth Drabinsky, Livent's
creative director. ``Eric has great affinity for these books and
for the storytelling.''

   Livent has also firmed up plans for ``Fosse: A Celebration in
Song and Dance,'' a collaboration among Richard Maltby, as
director; Ann Reinking, as co-director and co-choreographer, and
Chet Walker, as co-choreographer. The show is based on Bob Fosse's
original choreography, and Gwen Verdon, Fosse's widow and longtime
leading lady, will be an artistic adviser.

   The show is set to have its premiere on July 16 at the Ford
Center for the Performing Arts in Toronto, with plans to move to
the Colonial Theater in Boston in September and the Ahmanson
Theater in Los Angeles in December before opening on Broadway.

   &UR; Up From `The Chairs'  &LR;  Simon McBurney, whose Theatre de Complicite
brought its critically praised production of Ionesco's comedy ``The
Chairs'' to Broadway for a limited run that ends Saturday, is
coming back to New York next month for the Lincoln Center Festival
'98.

   McBurney will reprise ``Street of Crocodiles,'' one of the
troupe's most highly praised productions, based on short stories by
Bruno Schulz, a Polish Holocaust victim who was once forced by the
Gestapo to sort books for burning.

   ``We had said that if we ever revived it, it would be in New
York,'' McBurney said. ``The stories themselves have no hint of the
pleasure of conventional narrative. Our production is not a play,
as we understand a play. And I would not call it drama, as we
understand drama. But it is definitely theater.''

   The director said his Broadway experience with ``The Chairs''
was, all in all, a good one.

   ``Here there is an immense appreciation of the skill of the
actor and a real delight in the craft,'' he said. ``And there is a
very definite desire for a good time here in New York.''

   &UR; Chicken as Songbird  &LR;  If you're wondering where to find Henry
Krieger, composer of such big Broadway shows as ``Dreamgirls'' and
``Side Show,'' he's down in the East Village playing piano for a
bunch of puppets.

   Krieger first saw Susan Vitucci performing ``Love's Fowl'' two
years ago. A performance piece with puppets, it involves the
discovery of the secret diaries of La Pulcina Piccola, also known
as Chicken Little, and her romantic adventures after the
sky-is-falling incident.

   Krieger volunteered to write music for the show, and it grew
into a kind of mock opera, sung in Italian with English
supertitles. He plays the male parts, and Ms. Vitucci the female
parts. The show is in previews for a June 17 opening at the New
York Theater Workshop.

   ``We are very serious about everything having to do with this
particular chicken,'' Krieger said. ``We feel it's kind of our
special lot in life to portray her life in all its passion.''

   &UR; Along the Way  &LR;  Two Off Broadway shows strongly identified with
their lead performers are going to try replacing them. Hal Linden
will take over for Eli Wallach in ``Visiting Mr. Green'' at the
Union Square Theater beginning on July 7. And for four weeks,
starting on July 7, Michael Cerveris will take over ``Hedwig and
the Angry Inch'' from the show's vacationing star and author, John
Cameron Mitchell.

   Roger Rees and Dana Ivey will open the season for Playwrights
Horizons in September in a new comedy by Evan Smith, ``The Uneasy
Chair.''

   ``When I Was Girl I Used to Sing and Shout,'' which won Sharman
Macdonald The Evening Standard's Most Promising Playwright Award in
1984, will finally get its New York premiere, beginning on Aug. 5
at the John Mongtgomery Theater.
',
			body: '


   (ART ADV: Photo is being sent to NYT photo clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or -1927.) 
(ja) 
 By RICK LYMAN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ The circle of life: Struggling shows drop away
(``Honour,'' ``The Diary of Anne Frank,'' ``1776,'' ``The Life,''
``The Sunshine Boys,'' ``The Last Night of Ballyhoo'') as new ones
rise to take their place.

   The Public Theater's revival of ``On the Town,'' which was
performed in the Delacorte Theater in Central Park last summer but
had difficulties transferring to Broadway when two choreographers
left the show, is now set to begin previews on Oct. 16 at the
Gershwin Theater.

   George C. Wolfe will direct the revival, as he did in the park,
and his new choreographer will be Keith Young, a former principal
dancer for Twyla Tharp who will make his Broadway choreography
debut.

   Only one bit of casting has been confirmed: Lea DeLaria will
return as the wisecracking taxi driver.

   After the Broadway success of John Leguizamo's one-man
``Freak,'' Sandra Bernhard has decided to bring her one-woman show,
``I'm Still Here . . . Damn It!,'' to the Booth Theater in
mid-October.

   ``I thought we might as well take it to the next level,'' Ms.
Bernhard said, adding that the show would be similar to the one she
performed earlier this year at the Westbeth Theater.

   ``After taking the summer off and having a baby, I imagine there
will be some new material,'' she said. ``The show evolves.''

   Gregory Mosher, one of the producers of both Leguizamo's and Ms.
Bernhard's shows, said extensive polling of the audience members at
``Freak'' showed that 93 percent were under 50 and three-quarters
under 35.

   This convinced him that, with the right marketing and the right
show, younger people could be drawn into a Broadway theater.

   ``They're there,'' Mosher said. ``That audience is really
there.''

   &UR; The Hit in the Brit?  &LR;  Eric Idle, formerly of Monty Python, will
write the book for a new musical being put together by Livent based
on the works of Dr. Seuss.

   ``Seussical,'' which will also reunite the ``Ragtime'' team of
the lyricist Lynn Ahrens, the composer Stephen Flaherty and the
director Frank Galati, is scheduled to have its first reading in
August 1999 at Livent's Summer Festival of New Works in Toronto and
a full production sometime in 2000.

   ``The hardest part was resolving the book writer, to find an
exciting comedic element but somebody who had great humanity and
understands the Seussian world,'' said Garth Drabinsky, Livent's
creative director. ``Eric has great affinity for these books and
for the storytelling.''

   Livent has also firmed up plans for ``Fosse: A Celebration in
Song and Dance,'' a collaboration among Richard Maltby, as
director; Ann Reinking, as co-director and co-choreographer, and
Chet Walker, as co-choreographer. The show is based on Bob Fosse's
original choreography, and Gwen Verdon, Fosse's widow and longtime
leading lady, will be an artistic adviser.

   The show is set to have its premiere on July 16 at the Ford
Center for the Performing Arts in Toronto, with plans to move to
the Colonial Theater in Boston in September and the Ahmanson
Theater in Los Angeles in December before opening on Broadway.

   &UR; Up From `The Chairs'  &LR;  Simon McBurney, whose Theatre de Complicite
brought its critically praised production of Ionesco's comedy ``The
Chairs'' to Broadway for a limited run that ends Saturday, is
coming back to New York next month for the Lincoln Center Festival
'98.

   McBurney will reprise ``Street of Crocodiles,'' one of the
troupe's most highly praised productions, based on short stories by
Bruno Schulz, a Polish Holocaust victim who was once forced by the
Gestapo to sort books for burning.

   ``We had said that if we ever revived it, it would be in New
York,'' McBurney said. ``The stories themselves have no hint of the
pleasure of conventional narrative. Our production is not a play,
as we understand a play. And I would not call it drama, as we
understand drama. But it is definitely theater.''

   The director said his Broadway experience with ``The Chairs''
was, all in all, a good one.

   ``Here there is an immense appreciation of the skill of the
actor and a real delight in the craft,'' he said. ``And there is a
very definite desire for a good time here in New York.''

   &UR; Chicken as Songbird  &LR;  If you're wondering where to find Henry
Krieger, composer of such big Broadway shows as ``Dreamgirls'' and
``Side Show,'' he's down in the East Village playing piano for a
bunch of puppets.

   Krieger first saw Susan Vitucci performing ``Love's Fowl'' two
years ago. A performance piece with puppets, it involves the
discovery of the secret diaries of La Pulcina Piccola, also known
as Chicken Little, and her romantic adventures after the
sky-is-falling incident.

   Krieger volunteered to write music for the show, and it grew
into a kind of mock opera, sung in Italian with English
supertitles. He plays the male parts, and Ms. Vitucci the female
parts. The show is in previews for a June 17 opening at the New
York Theater Workshop.

   ``We are very serious about everything having to do with this
particular chicken,'' Krieger said. ``We feel it's kind of our
special lot in life to portray her life in all its passion.''

   &UR; Along the Way  &LR;  Two Off Broadway shows strongly identified with
their lead performers are going to try replacing them. Hal Linden
will take over for Eli Wallach in ``Visiting Mr. Green'' at the
Union Square Theater beginning on July 7. And for four weeks,
starting on July 7, Michael Cerveris will take over ``Hedwig and
the Angry Inch'' from the show's vacationing star and author, John
Cameron Mitchell.

   Roger Rees and Dana Ivey will open the season for Playwrights
Horizons in September in a new comedy by Evan Smith, ``The Uneasy
Chair.''

   ``When I Was Girl I Used to Sing and Shout,'' which won Sharman
Macdonald The Evening Standard's Most Promising Playwright Award in
1984, will finally get its New York premiere, beginning on Aug. 5
at the John Mongtgomery Theater.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0208 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:36 ',
			header: '
A5155 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SONGWRITERS-FAME-NYT &LR;      06-11 0634
',
			slug: ' BC-SONGWRITERS-FAME-NYT ',
			headline: '
FOR PAUL SIMON, SONGWRITERS' HALL OF FAME TOPPLES BARRIERS 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ After a hard year of watching his musical, ``The
Capeman,'' struggle on Broadway, Paul Simon was happy to be getting
an award when the Songwriters' Hall of Fame held its 29th annual
induction Wednesday night at the Sheraton New York.

   The hall of fame started as a bastion of Tin Pan Alley
songwriting and has gone on to recognize all segments of popular
music. Wednesday, it gave songwriting awards to Simon; Berry Gordy;
the team of Fats Domino and Dave Bartholomew; Larry Stock, who
wrote ``You're Nobody Till Somebody Loves You'' and ``Blueberry
Hill,'' and film composers John Williams and John Barry.

   Simon gave an acceptance speech as deftly constructed and
casually delivered as one of his songs. At first, he said, he had
been reluctant to apply to the hall of fame. ``They don't really
like us, the rock-and-rollers,'' he recalled thinking. ``We're not
their group, and they're not our group of songwriters.''

   But his career ``has been about denying the idea that there's
their group and our group,'' he said. ``If I am not in a group of
songwriters, what group could I possibly be in?''

   He turned to ``The Capeman,'' which received generally negative
reviews and closed in March after a brief run. ``It was a good
piece of work,'' he insisted, which was undermined by mainstream
media that said: ``What is he doing here on Broadway? He doesn't
come from our group, he's from another group.''

   He continued: ``It was one of the biggest beatings that I have
ever taken. It hurt, it really hurt. But I am grateful for having
been through that beating. I understand what it means when they
say, `You're not one of us.''' And he added, ``I have never
observed, in my experience, that any interesting cultural
experience ever started without an argument.''

   Frank Sinatra was (and remains) the hall of fame's honorary
chairman of the board, and after a video tribute to him, his
daughter Nancy Sinatra announced a grand project: a joint effort by
the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian Institution to build a
National Museum of American Music in a wing to be added to the
National Museum of American History on the Mall in Washington.

   In an interview after the award ceremony, Ms. Sinatra said the
museum would cost an estimated $150 million and would take years to
endow, approve, design and build. But, she said, ``we have the
commitment from both institutions.''

   Spokesmen for the institutions were more guarded. ``We would
love to see this happen,'' said John Edward Hasse, curator of
American music at the Smithsonian. ``It would take a lot of time
and a lot of money.''

   Diana Ross received the hall's Hitmaker Award, given to a
nonwriting singer. Awards were also given to ``The Christmas
Song,'' by Mel Torme and Robert Wells, and to music publisher Irwin
Z. Robinson of Famous Music. Marc Anthony, the Latin pop star who
appeared in ``The Capeman,'' Leslie Uggams, Julius LaRosa, Lloyd
Price and Cece Winans sang at the ceremony.

   Gordy, who created Motown Records, said he still considered
himself a songwriter above all. ``Protecting my songs is what
caused me to build everything else,'' he said.

   Domino remained in New Orleans with an eye problem, but
Bartholomew groused that it had taken the hall of fame 29 years to
recognize their songs, including ``Ain't That a Shame'' and ``I'm
Walking.'' Then he thanked his current publisher, EMI, for its
honesty. ``Other people were holding back on the zeros,'' he said,
from the millions of songs he had sold.

   And Ms. Ross declared: ``This award is not for me. It's for you,
the songwriters. I am your vehicle.''
',
			body: '


   (bl)  
 By JON PARELES   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ After a hard year of watching his musical, ``The
Capeman,'' struggle on Broadway, Paul Simon was happy to be getting
an award when the Songwriters' Hall of Fame held its 29th annual
induction Wednesday night at the Sheraton New York.

   The hall of fame started as a bastion of Tin Pan Alley
songwriting and has gone on to recognize all segments of popular
music. Wednesday, it gave songwriting awards to Simon; Berry Gordy;
the team of Fats Domino and Dave Bartholomew; Larry Stock, who
wrote ``You're Nobody Till Somebody Loves You'' and ``Blueberry
Hill,'' and film composers John Williams and John Barry.

   Simon gave an acceptance speech as deftly constructed and
casually delivered as one of his songs. At first, he said, he had
been reluctant to apply to the hall of fame. ``They don't really
like us, the rock-and-rollers,'' he recalled thinking. ``We're not
their group, and they're not our group of songwriters.''

   But his career ``has been about denying the idea that there's
their group and our group,'' he said. ``If I am not in a group of
songwriters, what group could I possibly be in?''

   He turned to ``The Capeman,'' which received generally negative
reviews and closed in March after a brief run. ``It was a good
piece of work,'' he insisted, which was undermined by mainstream
media that said: ``What is he doing here on Broadway? He doesn't
come from our group, he's from another group.''

   He continued: ``It was one of the biggest beatings that I have
ever taken. It hurt, it really hurt. But I am grateful for having
been through that beating. I understand what it means when they
say, `You're not one of us.''' And he added, ``I have never
observed, in my experience, that any interesting cultural
experience ever started without an argument.''

   Frank Sinatra was (and remains) the hall of fame's honorary
chairman of the board, and after a video tribute to him, his
daughter Nancy Sinatra announced a grand project: a joint effort by
the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian Institution to build a
National Museum of American Music in a wing to be added to the
National Museum of American History on the Mall in Washington.

   In an interview after the award ceremony, Ms. Sinatra said the
museum would cost an estimated $150 million and would take years to
endow, approve, design and build. But, she said, ``we have the
commitment from both institutions.''

   Spokesmen for the institutions were more guarded. ``We would
love to see this happen,'' said John Edward Hasse, curator of
American music at the Smithsonian. ``It would take a lot of time
and a lot of money.''

   Diana Ross received the hall's Hitmaker Award, given to a
nonwriting singer. Awards were also given to ``The Christmas
Song,'' by Mel Torme and Robert Wells, and to music publisher Irwin
Z. Robinson of Famous Music. Marc Anthony, the Latin pop star who
appeared in ``The Capeman,'' Leslie Uggams, Julius LaRosa, Lloyd
Price and Cece Winans sang at the ceremony.

   Gordy, who created Motown Records, said he still considered
himself a songwriter above all. ``Protecting my songs is what
caused me to build everything else,'' he said.

   Domino remained in New Orleans with an eye problem, but
Bartholomew groused that it had taken the hall of fame 29 years to
recognize their songs, including ``Ain't That a Shame'' and ``I'm
Walking.'' Then he thanked his current publisher, EMI, for its
honesty. ``Other people were holding back on the zeros,'' he said,
from the millions of songs he had sold.

   And Ms. Ross declared: ``This award is not for me. It's for you,
the songwriters. I am your vehicle.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0209 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:37 ',
			header: '
A5159 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TV-WEEKEND-625&AMP;ADD-NY     06-11 0960
',
			slug: ' BC-TV-WEEKEND-625&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
`THE MAGIC HOUR': DERIVATIVE AND WEAK 
',
			trailer: '
   On Monday night, Jay Leno twitted Harrison Ford about not liking
to appear on talk shows, trotted out a clip of the struggling young
Ford on an episode of ``Ironside'' and (getting to the point)
showed a scene from Ford's new movie, ``Six Days, Seven Nights.''

   On Tuesday, the second night of his new late-night talk show,
Magic Johnson twitted Harrison Ford about not having been his first
guest, trotted out a clip of the struggling young Ford in ``Love,
American Style,'' and showed a scene from Ford's new movie.

   Ford is, in fact, a perfectly charming guest: wry and low-keyed,
with a famous reserve that has become part of the publicity game.
And he may well have enough clips of his younger self wearing
bell-bottoms and spouting laughable dialogue to keep a dozen new
talk shows going. But these similar back-to-back appearances make
you wonder: How many talk shows does any viewer need?

   Johnson's show, ``The Magic Hour,'' wraps up its first week
Friday night. (Syndicated around the country, it appears against
the heavyweight competition of ``Tonight'' in most cities.) It
isn't about to reinvent the talk show, though it is part of
Johnson's beguiling reinvention of his career. The former
basketball star has already become a businessman (notably bringing
movie theaters to neglected black communities) and an energetic
role model for other people who are HIV positive. His appeal as a
personality is neatly captured in one of the program's hopeful
advertising slogans: ``the grin that stole late-night.'' Affable
and easygoing, he brings along immense good will from viewers. But
that doesn't make him a natural host.

   So far, ``The Magic Hour'' hasn't given viewers any reason to
choose it over the competition. He still needs to rely on the
structure around him, which is derivative and weak. Though he has
said he won't deliver a monologue, he comes out, stands on stage
and makes weak jokes (sounds like a monologue to us). He has an
unappealing sidekick in the stand-up comedian Craig Shoemaker, who
plays up a dorky image. And the guests make a steep drop from the
A-list, including Arnold Schwarzenegger and Whitney Houston on the
premiere, to a much lower tier. (Peta Wilson from ``La Femme
Nikita'' followed Ford on Tuesday and wondered where he had gone.)

   The show includes Leno-style comedy routines; people on the
street are asked to scream as if they were auditioning for
``Godzilla II.'' The night's biggest guest sometimes part in a
puffy, dull question-and-answer session with the audience.

   ``Arnold, what's the heaviest thing you've ever lifted?''

   Long pause. ``Maria's wallet.''

   The band, led by Sheila E., doesn't yet have a distinctive
style.

   On Wednesday, Arsenio Hall was a guest, and Hall pointed out
that the Johnson show is taped on the same stage as his old talk
show; Johnson even has his old dressing room. In fact, ``The Magic
Hour'' owes its existence to the programming void commonly assumed
to have opened up after ``The Arsenio Hall Show'' was canceled
several years ago. Recently, others have tried to fill that niche
for a hipper program with special appeal to black viewers, only to
discover how bloody late-night competition is. ``The Keenan Ivory
Wayans Show'' is already gone. ``Vibe,'' reconstituted with Sinbad
as its host, has been canceled but will stay around until
September.

   The big-name guest scheduled for tonight's ``Magic Hour'' is
Gillian Anderson, who already plugged her new ``X-Files'' movie on
the Leno show on Wednesday. Johnson and his staff will have to
become more inventive fast if they hope to survive beyond the end
of summer, when their contract runs out.

   Blue, every child's favorite pup, looks even more adorable
wearing a party hat in ``Blue's Birthday,'' which airs 8 p.m. ET
Sunday on Nickelodeon, a special nighttime version of ``Blue's
Clues,'' television's most popular show for preschooolers. The
format is the same as usual, with a more festive theme. Blue's
owner, Steve (Steven Burns), asks viewers to play along as he
gathers clues about what Blue would like for her birthday. He
searches for the blue pawprints that signal a clue, then writes
them down in his faithful ``handy dandy notebook.'' Blue gets
birthday greetings by mail (that is, video clips) from a few
live-action guests including Rosie O'Donnell. There is a birthday
song, a birthday dance and finally a birthday party at which all
Blue's animated friends turn up. She gets an especially warm hug
from her equally cute puppy friend, Magenta.

   ``Blue's Birthday'' will be repeated next week in the show's
regular slot (weekdays at 9:30 a.m., where the same episode always
runs for a week, reinforcing its lessons). A slightly expanded
video version will be available in October. Though its birthday
song is not as catchy as it should be, a show so educationally
savvy and sweet is a shining treasure in the cluttered landscape of
children's television.

   PRODUCTION NOTES:

   `THE MAGIC HOUR'

   11:30 p.m. ET weeknights on Fox

   Magic Johnson, host; Johnson, Lon Rosen, Geovanni Brewer and
Jeff Fischgrund, executive producers; Sheila E., music director;
Joe Revello, producer; Todd Yasui, supervising producer; Michael
Dimich, director; Tony Desena, head writer; Marilyn Gill, senior
segment producer. ``The Magic Hour'' is produced by Magic Johnson
Enterprises and Fox Nitetime Productions Inc. in association with
Twentieth Television.
',
			body: '


  (Eds.: Production notes are at end of review. Time, channel are for
New York area. Check local listings.) 
(lh) 
 By CARYN JAMES   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   On Monday night, Jay Leno twitted Harrison Ford about not liking
to appear on talk shows, trotted out a clip of the struggling young
Ford on an episode of ``Ironside'' and (getting to the point)
showed a scene from Ford's new movie, ``Six Days, Seven Nights.''

   On Tuesday, the second night of his new late-night talk show,
Magic Johnson twitted Harrison Ford about not having been his first
guest, trotted out a clip of the struggling young Ford in ``Love,
American Style,'' and showed a scene from Ford's new movie.

   Ford is, in fact, a perfectly charming guest: wry and low-keyed,
with a famous reserve that has become part of the publicity game.
And he may well have enough clips of his younger self wearing
bell-bottoms and spouting laughable dialogue to keep a dozen new
talk shows going. But these similar back-to-back appearances make
you wonder: How many talk shows does any viewer need?

   Johnson's show, ``The Magic Hour,'' wraps up its first week
Friday night. (Syndicated around the country, it appears against
the heavyweight competition of ``Tonight'' in most cities.) It
isn't about to reinvent the talk show, though it is part of
Johnson's beguiling reinvention of his career. The former
basketball star has already become a businessman (notably bringing
movie theaters to neglected black communities) and an energetic
role model for other people who are HIV positive. His appeal as a
personality is neatly captured in one of the program's hopeful
advertising slogans: ``the grin that stole late-night.'' Affable
and easygoing, he brings along immense good will from viewers. But
that doesn't make him a natural host.

   So far, ``The Magic Hour'' hasn't given viewers any reason to
choose it over the competition. He still needs to rely on the
structure around him, which is derivative and weak. Though he has
said he won't deliver a monologue, he comes out, stands on stage
and makes weak jokes (sounds like a monologue to us). He has an
unappealing sidekick in the stand-up comedian Craig Shoemaker, who
plays up a dorky image. And the guests make a steep drop from the
A-list, including Arnold Schwarzenegger and Whitney Houston on the
premiere, to a much lower tier. (Peta Wilson from ``La Femme
Nikita'' followed Ford on Tuesday and wondered where he had gone.)

   The show includes Leno-style comedy routines; people on the
street are asked to scream as if they were auditioning for
``Godzilla II.'' The night's biggest guest sometimes part in a
puffy, dull question-and-answer session with the audience.

   ``Arnold, what's the heaviest thing you've ever lifted?''

   Long pause. ``Maria's wallet.''

   The band, led by Sheila E., doesn't yet have a distinctive
style.

   On Wednesday, Arsenio Hall was a guest, and Hall pointed out
that the Johnson show is taped on the same stage as his old talk
show; Johnson even has his old dressing room. In fact, ``The Magic
Hour'' owes its existence to the programming void commonly assumed
to have opened up after ``The Arsenio Hall Show'' was canceled
several years ago. Recently, others have tried to fill that niche
for a hipper program with special appeal to black viewers, only to
discover how bloody late-night competition is. ``The Keenan Ivory
Wayans Show'' is already gone. ``Vibe,'' reconstituted with Sinbad
as its host, has been canceled but will stay around until
September.

   The big-name guest scheduled for tonight's ``Magic Hour'' is
Gillian Anderson, who already plugged her new ``X-Files'' movie on
the Leno show on Wednesday. Johnson and his staff will have to
become more inventive fast if they hope to survive beyond the end
of summer, when their contract runs out.

   Blue, every child's favorite pup, looks even more adorable
wearing a party hat in ``Blue's Birthday,'' which airs 8 p.m. ET
Sunday on Nickelodeon, a special nighttime version of ``Blue's
Clues,'' television's most popular show for preschooolers. The
format is the same as usual, with a more festive theme. Blue's
owner, Steve (Steven Burns), asks viewers to play along as he
gathers clues about what Blue would like for her birthday. He
searches for the blue pawprints that signal a clue, then writes
them down in his faithful ``handy dandy notebook.'' Blue gets
birthday greetings by mail (that is, video clips) from a few
live-action guests including Rosie O'Donnell. There is a birthday
song, a birthday dance and finally a birthday party at which all
Blue's animated friends turn up. She gets an especially warm hug
from her equally cute puppy friend, Magenta.

   ``Blue's Birthday'' will be repeated next week in the show's
regular slot (weekdays at 9:30 a.m., where the same episode always
runs for a week, reinforcing its lessons). A slightly expanded
video version will be available in October. Though its birthday
song is not as catchy as it should be, a show so educationally
savvy and sweet is a shining treasure in the cluttered landscape of
children's television.

   PRODUCTION NOTES:

   `THE MAGIC HOUR'

   11:30 p.m. ET weeknights on Fox

   Magic Johnson, host; Johnson, Lon Rosen, Geovanni Brewer and
Jeff Fischgrund, executive producers; Sheila E., music director;
Joe Revello, producer; Todd Yasui, supervising producer; Michael
Dimich, director; Tony Desena, head writer; Marilyn Gill, senior
segment producer. ``The Magic Hour'' is produced by Magic Johnson
Enterprises and Fox Nitetime Productions Inc. in association with
Twentieth Television.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0210 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:40 ',
			header: '
A5169 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ANTIQUES-COLUMN-NYT &LR;      06-11 1170
',
			slug: ' BC-ANTIQUES-COLUMN-NYT ',
			headline: '
ANTIQUES: EARLY AMERICAN FURNITURE 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ What's in a name? A lot if it's early American
furniture. Two names are even better: when the name of the
furniture maker and the patron for whom the furniture was made are
both known, it can greatly increase the value of a piece.

   Christies' sale of important American furniture, silver, folk
art and decorative arts Thursday has one lot with all the names you
could possibly need for a promising sale. There is an elegant
American Chippendale-style block-and-shell carved chest with four
drawers, made in Newport, R.I., in the late 18th century. The
imported mahogany, while not highly figured, has the rich patina of
two centuries of use. It is in fine condition. It has its original
imported British brasses, even though they are the delicate bail
style of drawer pulls, not the showy plate brasses that adorn some
Newport pieces. The carving of the blocked shells is an early
example of American craftsmanship at its best; it is both crisp and
powerful.

   The piece is not only signed and dated, but it still has its
original labels as well. The one by its cabinetmaker is printed, on
paper, ``Made by John Townsend, Newport,'' with the scrawling
signature of its owner, Sarah Slocum, and the date, Nov. 20, 1792.
The second label, written in script, was found in the top drawer.
It reads, ``Give to Lydia T. Conner'' (a grandniece who inherited
the chest).

   Zeke Liverant, a Colchester, Conn., dealer whose family has been
in the antiques business since 1920, is familiar with the Slocum
chest of drawers. ``Having the Townsend label is going to mean a
lot.'' he said. ``It will probably go for 30 to 40 percent more
than a similar chest of drawers without a label.'' The unofficial
estimate for the chest is $1.5 million to $2 million.

   The American furniture expert at Sotheby's, Leslie Keno, said,
``It's definitely rare for an 18th-century piece of American
furniture to have its label.'' Next Friday Sotheby's will offer the
late Thomas Mellon and Betty Evans collection of American
furniture, which includes an unsigned block-and-shell carved tall
case clock of the Goddard-Townsend School in Newport.

   There are nine known signed Townsend pieces of block-and-shell
furniture. Examples are in the collections of the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, Colonial Williamsburg, the Chipstone Foundation in
Madison, Wis., and the Diplomatic Reception Rooms in the State
Department in Washington, which is the only one with the owner's
name on it as well.

   Commissioning furniture like this was a major commitment in the
late 1700s. Keno's twin brother, Leigh Keno, an American antiques
dealer based in Manhattan, said: ``It's kind of like ordering a
custom Bentley today. No one needed a block-and-shell chest in
those days.''

   Dean Failey, the American furniture expert at Christie's, said
it had been able to trace the history of the chest from the
beginning. Sarah Slocum (1771-1859) was the daughter of a prominent
Quaker merchant in Newport. Despite the British occupation of
Newport, the Slocum family seems to have survived the American
Revolution intact and prospering. Sarah's father died in 1791,
leaving her a comfortable inheritance. The next year she married
Thomas Hammond, a Harvard-educated lawyer who lived in New Bedford,
Mass., and was a classmate of John Quincy Adams. It is thought that
her fiance gave her the chest as a marriage gift.

   New research has shown that John F. Townsend was Sarah Slocum's
granduncle, said John Hays, chief of the American furniture
department at Christie's. Sarah Slocum's husband died of
consumption in 1803, and the chest appears in the detailed
accounting of his possessions in his probate papers. The Christie's
catalog notes, ``As the first item listed in the inventory and the
most expensive single item excepting beds and linens, the `mahogany
buroe' is undoubtedly a reference to the chest offered here.'' It
was valued at $15.

   Sarah married again five years later, this time to a New
Bedford, Mass., sea captain, Rowland Crocker, who was a widower.

   Crocker was famous for his courage and bravery at sea. He had
rescued a ship, the Otis, during a bad storm and was rewarded for
saving cargo worth a half-million dollars. In 1834 he was elected
to the House of Representatives and later worked for an insurance
company. He died in 1852, leaving Sarah a small fortune. Her
spidery handwriting appears on her husband's estate papers. She was
81 and a widow for the second time. She died seven years later.

   From there, one can follow the history of the chest through a
Slocum family genealogical chart to 1934, when it passed out of the
family and seems to have been lost. It is now being sold from the
estate of Dr. William Serri, a New Jersey collector who amassed an
important collection of American furniture in the 1940s and '50s.
He bought the Slocum chest in 1953.

   Townsend, born in 1732, was one of America's earliest skilled
cabinetmakers. As Berry Tracy, curator of the American Wing at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, wrote in 1975: ``While the block front
was borrowed from Boston furniture, the carved shell was the
invention of the Townsends and the Goddards, the leading
cabinetmaking families in Newport.''

   He described the special appeal of a Townsend block-and-shell
carved chest in his discussion of the 1765 example in the Met's
collection: ``Vertical blocking, alternately projecting and
receding, counters the horizontal pattern of the drawers. The
concave middle block draws attention to the center, while the
projecting shells, whose sinuously sculpted ribs fragment reflected
light, emphasize the top.''

   The only real difference in the carving of the two chests is a
crosshatching in the later chest in the recessed center of the
shell. The Met chest has fluted petals.

   Townsend was taken prisoner during the Revolution and put on a
British prison ship anchored offshore. He survived the war and went
right back to producing his trademark block-and-shell carved
furniture into the 1790s.

   This is fascinating, if you consider that by then the Federal
style was coming into fashion and furniture styles were changing
rapidly. If you look at the Slocum chest's twin at the Met, it's
clear that Townsend changed his style very little over a 30-year
period.

   There are about 30 signed Townsend pieces of furniture; 9 have
block-and-shell ornamentation. This particular piece was exhibited
at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston in 1929 and was on loan to the
Diplomatic Reception Rooms at the State Department from 1968 to
1973.

   The chest has a patriotic element, a historic element and a good
provenance. The sale Thursday will be the true test of what
difference a name makes. ``A good provenance is important, but a
piece has to stand on its own merits first,'' Leigh Keno warned.
``A good provenance is only icing on the cake.''
',
			body: '


   (bl)  
 By WENDY MOONAN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ What's in a name? A lot if it's early American
furniture. Two names are even better: when the name of the
furniture maker and the patron for whom the furniture was made are
both known, it can greatly increase the value of a piece.

   Christies' sale of important American furniture, silver, folk
art and decorative arts Thursday has one lot with all the names you
could possibly need for a promising sale. There is an elegant
American Chippendale-style block-and-shell carved chest with four
drawers, made in Newport, R.I., in the late 18th century. The
imported mahogany, while not highly figured, has the rich patina of
two centuries of use. It is in fine condition. It has its original
imported British brasses, even though they are the delicate bail
style of drawer pulls, not the showy plate brasses that adorn some
Newport pieces. The carving of the blocked shells is an early
example of American craftsmanship at its best; it is both crisp and
powerful.

   The piece is not only signed and dated, but it still has its
original labels as well. The one by its cabinetmaker is printed, on
paper, ``Made by John Townsend, Newport,'' with the scrawling
signature of its owner, Sarah Slocum, and the date, Nov. 20, 1792.
The second label, written in script, was found in the top drawer.
It reads, ``Give to Lydia T. Conner'' (a grandniece who inherited
the chest).

   Zeke Liverant, a Colchester, Conn., dealer whose family has been
in the antiques business since 1920, is familiar with the Slocum
chest of drawers. ``Having the Townsend label is going to mean a
lot.'' he said. ``It will probably go for 30 to 40 percent more
than a similar chest of drawers without a label.'' The unofficial
estimate for the chest is $1.5 million to $2 million.

   The American furniture expert at Sotheby's, Leslie Keno, said,
``It's definitely rare for an 18th-century piece of American
furniture to have its label.'' Next Friday Sotheby's will offer the
late Thomas Mellon and Betty Evans collection of American
furniture, which includes an unsigned block-and-shell carved tall
case clock of the Goddard-Townsend School in Newport.

   There are nine known signed Townsend pieces of block-and-shell
furniture. Examples are in the collections of the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, Colonial Williamsburg, the Chipstone Foundation in
Madison, Wis., and the Diplomatic Reception Rooms in the State
Department in Washington, which is the only one with the owner's
name on it as well.

   Commissioning furniture like this was a major commitment in the
late 1700s. Keno's twin brother, Leigh Keno, an American antiques
dealer based in Manhattan, said: ``It's kind of like ordering a
custom Bentley today. No one needed a block-and-shell chest in
those days.''

   Dean Failey, the American furniture expert at Christie's, said
it had been able to trace the history of the chest from the
beginning. Sarah Slocum (1771-1859) was the daughter of a prominent
Quaker merchant in Newport. Despite the British occupation of
Newport, the Slocum family seems to have survived the American
Revolution intact and prospering. Sarah's father died in 1791,
leaving her a comfortable inheritance. The next year she married
Thomas Hammond, a Harvard-educated lawyer who lived in New Bedford,
Mass., and was a classmate of John Quincy Adams. It is thought that
her fiance gave her the chest as a marriage gift.

   New research has shown that John F. Townsend was Sarah Slocum's
granduncle, said John Hays, chief of the American furniture
department at Christie's. Sarah Slocum's husband died of
consumption in 1803, and the chest appears in the detailed
accounting of his possessions in his probate papers. The Christie's
catalog notes, ``As the first item listed in the inventory and the
most expensive single item excepting beds and linens, the `mahogany
buroe' is undoubtedly a reference to the chest offered here.'' It
was valued at $15.

   Sarah married again five years later, this time to a New
Bedford, Mass., sea captain, Rowland Crocker, who was a widower.

   Crocker was famous for his courage and bravery at sea. He had
rescued a ship, the Otis, during a bad storm and was rewarded for
saving cargo worth a half-million dollars. In 1834 he was elected
to the House of Representatives and later worked for an insurance
company. He died in 1852, leaving Sarah a small fortune. Her
spidery handwriting appears on her husband's estate papers. She was
81 and a widow for the second time. She died seven years later.

   From there, one can follow the history of the chest through a
Slocum family genealogical chart to 1934, when it passed out of the
family and seems to have been lost. It is now being sold from the
estate of Dr. William Serri, a New Jersey collector who amassed an
important collection of American furniture in the 1940s and '50s.
He bought the Slocum chest in 1953.

   Townsend, born in 1732, was one of America's earliest skilled
cabinetmakers. As Berry Tracy, curator of the American Wing at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, wrote in 1975: ``While the block front
was borrowed from Boston furniture, the carved shell was the
invention of the Townsends and the Goddards, the leading
cabinetmaking families in Newport.''

   He described the special appeal of a Townsend block-and-shell
carved chest in his discussion of the 1765 example in the Met's
collection: ``Vertical blocking, alternately projecting and
receding, counters the horizontal pattern of the drawers. The
concave middle block draws attention to the center, while the
projecting shells, whose sinuously sculpted ribs fragment reflected
light, emphasize the top.''

   The only real difference in the carving of the two chests is a
crosshatching in the later chest in the recessed center of the
shell. The Met chest has fluted petals.

   Townsend was taken prisoner during the Revolution and put on a
British prison ship anchored offshore. He survived the war and went
right back to producing his trademark block-and-shell carved
furniture into the 1790s.

   This is fascinating, if you consider that by then the Federal
style was coming into fashion and furniture styles were changing
rapidly. If you look at the Slocum chest's twin at the Met, it's
clear that Townsend changed his style very little over a 30-year
period.

   There are about 30 signed Townsend pieces of furniture; 9 have
block-and-shell ornamentation. This particular piece was exhibited
at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston in 1929 and was on loan to the
Diplomatic Reception Rooms at the State Department from 1968 to
1973.

   The chest has a patriotic element, a historic element and a good
provenance. The sale Thursday will be the true test of what
difference a name makes. ``A good provenance is important, but a
piece has to stand on its own merits first,'' Leigh Keno warned.
``A good provenance is only icing on the cake.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0211 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:43 ',
			header: '
A5171 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PA-JAPANESE-PRINTS-2T     06-11 0689
',
			slug: ' BC-PA-JAPANESE-PRINTS-2TAKES-NYT ',
			headline: '
KUNIYOSHI: PORTRAYER OF MYTHIC WARRIORS LEAVES NO STONE UNTURNED 
',
			trailer: '
   PHILADELPHIA _ One of the achievements of ``Heroes and Ghosts:
Japanese Prints by Kuniyoshi, 1797-1861'' at the Philadelphia
Museum of Art is its vigorous demonstration that much recent
American popular culture is not simply American, nor completely
Western, nor, in concept, especially recent.

   The proof starts mounting immediately, and irresistibly, in
technically dazzling woodblock images that teem with beautiful
colors, colorful characters and extremes of action and emotion.
Stir in a string of narratively precise, melodramatic titles, and
these prints may initially, if superficially, bring to mind a host
of popular American genres: the comic book and its offspring, the
action-hero figure as well as the pulp novel and television soap
opera.

   Consider the show's first three woodblock prints: ``Warrior
Defies Skeleton Conjured by Princess Takiyasha,'' ``The Noble
Warrior Minamoto Yorimitsu Slays the Earth Spider'' and ``Tokiwa
Gozen Shields Her Children as She Flees the Enemy Taira Clan in the
Snow.'' (The titles alone tell us that we are in the presence of
characters whose triumphs and failures were familiar to a large and
loyal public.)

   In the first print, a giant skeleton looms over a samurai who,
clearly undaunted by the apparition, continues to execute one of
his colleagues. In the second, an enormous spider, its legs striped
like a convict, is confronted by a ferociously armed warrior. In
the third, a beautiful woman in a billowing kimono bends into the
wind, her sandaled feet accompanied by those of two otherwise
invisible children.

   At the end of this first wall hangs ``The Moonlit Fight Between
the Boy Hero Minamoto Yoshitsune and the Giant Warrior-Priest Benki
on Gojo Bridge in Kyoto,'' a beautiful, peaceful landscape that
might have been designed by Kuniyoshi's better-known contemporary
Ando Hiroshige.

   Except that the peace is shattered by tones of red and black and
two extravagantly armed warriors who charge from opposite ends of
the arching bridge while a richly dressed spirit hovers overhead
refereeing.

   Few exhibitions are simultaneously as arcane and immediate as
this one. Organized by the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam in
collaboration with the Society for Japanese Arts and the
Philadelphia Museum of Art, it contains 125 prints and provides a
memorable glimpse into the world of Otagawa Kuniyoshi, whose early
aptitude for drawing earned him at age 15 an apprenticeship in the
studio of Utagawa Toyokuni, one of the most popular print artists
of the previous generation.

   After 1827, when his 50 Suikodenwarrior prints began to be
published to great popular acclaim, Kuniyoshi became one of the
most successful designers of ukiyoe prints, popular images of urban
leisure, in 19th-century Japan.

   In addition to his extravagantly turned-out bloodthirsty
warriors like the Suikoden, characters based on medieval Chinese
legend, he was also known for vivid depictions of scary ghosts and
monsters, immense sumo wrestlers, beautiful ladies, grimacing
Kabuki actors as well as more placid images of cats.

   Luckily examples of Kuniyoshi's preparatory studies have
survived, and several, like ``Samurai Killing a Giant Snake,'' are
sprinkled throughout the show, where their quick, animated lines
provide a sense of the artist's hand and the impression that images
came to him almost fully formed.

   This exhibition means to raise Kuniyoshi's historical standing.
He was dominant during what was widely considered a period of
decline for the woodblock print, especially the figure print, in
which he came to specialize. His work was often considered coarse
or decadent, an assessment that held sway in many quarters for
years.

   As the prominent art historian Sherman Lee has written of
19th-century print-making in Japan: ``As popular taste for figure
prints became ever more garish, landscape became the only subject
for the sensitive and original artist.''

   &QL; 
nn

   But this exhibition suggests that Kuniyoshi may have extended
the tradition of the woodblock figure print in at least two ways.
First, perhaps at the suggestion of a publisher, Kuniyoshi placed a
new emphasis on tales of the past, portraying, sometimes in
combination, mythic tales or ancient battles for power, in no short
supply in a country torn by internal strife and warring shoguns.

   (He did this increasingly after 1841, when edicts outlawed the
portrayal of Kabuki actors and other contemporary figures in an
attempt to reduce excess and strengthen the economy.)

   These tales centered on heroes whose exploits were already
well-known but were rarely depicted visually. For example, Tokiwa
Gozen and her foundlings were actual people, as were the ``Enemy
Taira Clan'' from which she flees.

   To appease censors, these later images were often presented in
series aimed at moral uplift; the image of Tokiwa Gozen is part of
a series titled ``Mirror of Women of Wisdom and Courage.''

   Second, there is that garishness, that magnetic visual vibrancy.
Even by today's standards, popular and otherwise, Kuniyoshi had an
incisive talent for translating dramatic events into dynamic
images. He left no stone of visual possibility unturned: richness
of color, extreme complexity of composition, opulent expanses of
fur or patterned fabric, inventive renderings of ephemeral events.

   These include the spurting blood of warriors ignoring their
wounds, the monochromatic silhouettes of ghosts, falling or fallen
snow, fire and showers of arrows that fill the air, as in ``The
Last Stand of the Kusunoki at Shijonamate.''

   Tattoos may also qualify for this last category, like the
combination of Chinese peonies and lions that covers most of the
bulky form of the battling bandit Roshii Ensei, jumped by
supporters of the wrestling champion he has just defeated. (He
stands on top of one assailant and thrusts a beam at another, just
offstage.)

   But since Japan is an island, it makes sense that the substance
Kuniyoshi seems to have portrayed most extensively, after people,
may have been water _ swaths of transparent blues and crackling,
curling frisee-like whitecaps _ that swirls, rains, splashes,
cascades and floods throughout these images, sometimes filling them
top to bottom.

   Perhaps Kuniyoshi has been underappreciated because he was in
many ways an overt virtuoso in a society where covert virtuosity _
restrained if not invisible _ was often the norm, yet where every
method of fabrication was, and often still is, refined to the level
of an art form.

   One wonders if he appreciated this conflict, or even took a
certain pleasure in emphasizing it. For while he catalogued a range
of art forms in his images _ portraying opulent fabrics, suits of
armor, weapons and saddles, ships and houses _ he also usually
inserted them into roiling action scenes, where they were subjected
to the destructive forces whose ultimate source was his vehemently
fertile imagination.

   (italics)``Heroes and Ghosts: Japanese prints by Kuniyoshi,
1797-1861'' remains at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Benjamin
Franklin Parkway at 26th Street, through June 28.(end italics)
',
			body: '


   (af)  
 By ROBERTA SMITH   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   PHILADELPHIA _ One of the achievements of ``Heroes and Ghosts:
Japanese Prints by Kuniyoshi, 1797-1861'' at the Philadelphia
Museum of Art is its vigorous demonstration that much recent
American popular culture is not simply American, nor completely
Western, nor, in concept, especially recent.

   The proof starts mounting immediately, and irresistibly, in
technically dazzling woodblock images that teem with beautiful
colors, colorful characters and extremes of action and emotion.
Stir in a string of narratively precise, melodramatic titles, and
these prints may initially, if superficially, bring to mind a host
of popular American genres: the comic book and its offspring, the
action-hero figure as well as the pulp novel and television soap
opera.

   Consider the show's first three woodblock prints: ``Warrior
Defies Skeleton Conjured by Princess Takiyasha,'' ``The Noble
Warrior Minamoto Yorimitsu Slays the Earth Spider'' and ``Tokiwa
Gozen Shields Her Children as She Flees the Enemy Taira Clan in the
Snow.'' (The titles alone tell us that we are in the presence of
characters whose triumphs and failures were familiar to a large and
loyal public.)

   In the first print, a giant skeleton looms over a samurai who,
clearly undaunted by the apparition, continues to execute one of
his colleagues. In the second, an enormous spider, its legs striped
like a convict, is confronted by a ferociously armed warrior. In
the third, a beautiful woman in a billowing kimono bends into the
wind, her sandaled feet accompanied by those of two otherwise
invisible children.

   At the end of this first wall hangs ``The Moonlit Fight Between
the Boy Hero Minamoto Yoshitsune and the Giant Warrior-Priest Benki
on Gojo Bridge in Kyoto,'' a beautiful, peaceful landscape that
might have been designed by Kuniyoshi's better-known contemporary
Ando Hiroshige.

   Except that the peace is shattered by tones of red and black and
two extravagantly armed warriors who charge from opposite ends of
the arching bridge while a richly dressed spirit hovers overhead
refereeing.

   Few exhibitions are simultaneously as arcane and immediate as
this one. Organized by the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam in
collaboration with the Society for Japanese Arts and the
Philadelphia Museum of Art, it contains 125 prints and provides a
memorable glimpse into the world of Otagawa Kuniyoshi, whose early
aptitude for drawing earned him at age 15 an apprenticeship in the
studio of Utagawa Toyokuni, one of the most popular print artists
of the previous generation.

   After 1827, when his 50 Suikodenwarrior prints began to be
published to great popular acclaim, Kuniyoshi became one of the
most successful designers of ukiyoe prints, popular images of urban
leisure, in 19th-century Japan.

   In addition to his extravagantly turned-out bloodthirsty
warriors like the Suikoden, characters based on medieval Chinese
legend, he was also known for vivid depictions of scary ghosts and
monsters, immense sumo wrestlers, beautiful ladies, grimacing
Kabuki actors as well as more placid images of cats.

   Luckily examples of Kuniyoshi's preparatory studies have
survived, and several, like ``Samurai Killing a Giant Snake,'' are
sprinkled throughout the show, where their quick, animated lines
provide a sense of the artist's hand and the impression that images
came to him almost fully formed.

   This exhibition means to raise Kuniyoshi's historical standing.
He was dominant during what was widely considered a period of
decline for the woodblock print, especially the figure print, in
which he came to specialize. His work was often considered coarse
or decadent, an assessment that held sway in many quarters for
years.

   As the prominent art historian Sherman Lee has written of
19th-century print-making in Japan: ``As popular taste for figure
prints became ever more garish, landscape became the only subject
for the sensitive and original artist.''

   &QL; 
nn

   But this exhibition suggests that Kuniyoshi may have extended
the tradition of the woodblock figure print in at least two ways.
First, perhaps at the suggestion of a publisher, Kuniyoshi placed a
new emphasis on tales of the past, portraying, sometimes in
combination, mythic tales or ancient battles for power, in no short
supply in a country torn by internal strife and warring shoguns.

   (He did this increasingly after 1841, when edicts outlawed the
portrayal of Kabuki actors and other contemporary figures in an
attempt to reduce excess and strengthen the economy.)

   These tales centered on heroes whose exploits were already
well-known but were rarely depicted visually. For example, Tokiwa
Gozen and her foundlings were actual people, as were the ``Enemy
Taira Clan'' from which she flees.

   To appease censors, these later images were often presented in
series aimed at moral uplift; the image of Tokiwa Gozen is part of
a series titled ``Mirror of Women of Wisdom and Courage.''

   Second, there is that garishness, that magnetic visual vibrancy.
Even by today's standards, popular and otherwise, Kuniyoshi had an
incisive talent for translating dramatic events into dynamic
images. He left no stone of visual possibility unturned: richness
of color, extreme complexity of composition, opulent expanses of
fur or patterned fabric, inventive renderings of ephemeral events.

   These include the spurting blood of warriors ignoring their
wounds, the monochromatic silhouettes of ghosts, falling or fallen
snow, fire and showers of arrows that fill the air, as in ``The
Last Stand of the Kusunoki at Shijonamate.''

   Tattoos may also qualify for this last category, like the
combination of Chinese peonies and lions that covers most of the
bulky form of the battling bandit Roshii Ensei, jumped by
supporters of the wrestling champion he has just defeated. (He
stands on top of one assailant and thrusts a beam at another, just
offstage.)

   But since Japan is an island, it makes sense that the substance
Kuniyoshi seems to have portrayed most extensively, after people,
may have been water _ swaths of transparent blues and crackling,
curling frisee-like whitecaps _ that swirls, rains, splashes,
cascades and floods throughout these images, sometimes filling them
top to bottom.

   Perhaps Kuniyoshi has been underappreciated because he was in
many ways an overt virtuoso in a society where covert virtuosity _
restrained if not invisible _ was often the norm, yet where every
method of fabrication was, and often still is, refined to the level
of an art form.

   One wonders if he appreciated this conflict, or even took a
certain pleasure in emphasizing it. For while he catalogued a range
of art forms in his images _ portraying opulent fabrics, suits of
armor, weapons and saddles, ships and houses _ he also usually
inserted them into roiling action scenes, where they were subjected
to the destructive forces whose ultimate source was his vehemently
fertile imagination.

   (italics)``Heroes and Ghosts: Japanese prints by Kuniyoshi,
1797-1861'' remains at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Benjamin
Franklin Parkway at 26th Street, through June 28.(end italics)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0213 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:44 ',
			header: '
A5174 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PERA-THEATER-REVIEW-4     06-11 0772
',
			slug: ' BC-PERA-THEATER-REVIEW-400&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
`PERA PALAS': AMBITIOUS AND THOUGHT-PROVOKING 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Hugely ambitious and blessed with a versatile, richly
talented cast, an excellent new play called ``Pera Palas'' arrived
Thursday night to engage the mind and grip the emotions.

   Its three intertwined stories embrace no less than the destiny
of a nation, the liberation of women and the fate of lovers. All
are linked to guests at the venerable Pera Palas Hotel. With its
action stretching from the last days of the Ottoman Empire in
Constantinople in 1918 to the reincarnated Istanbul of the Republic
of Turkey in 1994, ``Pera Palas'' pulses with passion and questing
intelligence.

   In the earliest of the stories, Evelyn Crawley (played by Betsy
Aidem), an English writer and feminist in Constantinople as World
War I and the Ottoman Empire near their end, is invited by Melek
(Defne Halman), a 15-year-old girl she met on an earlier visit, to
stay in her wealthy family's harem. The girl's father, Ali Riza
Efendi (Craig Mathers) is a member of the ruling elite. He has
arranged Melek's marriage to a man she has never met. Melek is
elated. But the outspoken Evelyn, who is astonished at Turkish
women's acceptance of harem life and appalled by their exclusion
from its male-dominated polygamous society, is dismayed.

   In the second of the intertwined stories, set in 1952 in a
Westernized Turkey, Kathy Miller (Annie Meisels), dismays her older
sister, Anne (Jennifer Dorr White), the wife of Joe (Mathers), a
boorish American businessman, by falling in love with Orhan
Bayraktar (Tom Lee), a handsome young progressive Turk.

   And in the third story, set in 1994, the Turkish-born Murat (Lou
Liberatore), returns to Istanbul with his American lover, Brian
(Evan Pappas), after nine years of estrangement from his parents
and his sister, a lawyer.

   Taking a long view of history and gazing clear-eyed and
unflinchingly at the consequences of political and personal
decisions, ``Pera Palas'' is the creation of Sinan Unel, a
Turkish-born writer who lives in the United States.

   For all the seriousness of his concerns, his play is alight with
comic touches. Directed smartly by Steven Williford for the Lark
Theater Company, ``Pera Palas'' also poses a fierce and probably
delightful challenge for its gifted cast, called upon to move
backward and forward in time and to change roles from story to
story, with men appearing from time to time as women and vice
versa.

   Mathers, for example, plays Joe and Ali but also appears as
Ipek, a comic maid, and Sir Robert Cave, a haughty British
diplomat. Ms. White plays Joe's very American wife but also is
Ali's first wife, the elegant French-speaking Neyime, as well as
Orhan's father, Osman. And Pappas, who is Ali's son, Cavid, is
replaced in that role in 1952, by Maggie Burke, who also plays
Ali's third wife, Ayse, and the older Kathy in 1994.

   ``Pera Palas'' also introduces American audiences to the
wide-ranging talent and star qualities of one of Turkey's foremost
actors, the mustached Ali Poyrazoglu, who appears initially in two
small comic roles. In the first, in the scenes set in 1918, he
appears as Adalet, a woman who came to dinner and stayed in the
harem. In the 1952 scenes, he appears as Bedia, young Orhan's
mother, smiling hypocritically below her rhinestone-studded
eyeglass frames while her tart Turkish tongue flays his intended
bride, Kathy, as too skinny and pale as a corpse.

   Finally, in a formidable portrayal of bitterness and agony,
Poyrazoglu emerges as the alcoholic Orhan of 1994 in a Turkey where
a rising tide of Islamic fundamentalism threatens the status of
women and other Westernizations instituted by Kemal Ataturk in the
1920s.

   On the world stage, as at the Mcginn/Cazale Theater, history
continues to play itself out.

   PRODUCTION NOTES:

   `PERA PALAS'

   By Sinan Unel; directed by Steven Williford; set by Larry
Gruber; lighting by Howell Binkley; costumes by Mirena Rada; sound
by Robert Murphy; original music by James Adler, with Scott Wilson;
production manager, Ed Teer; production stage manager, Jennifer G.
Birge; general manager, Roy Gabay. Presented by the Lark Theater
Company, John Clinton Eisner, producing director; Lesley Malin,
managing director. At the McGinn/Cazale Theater.

   With: Betsy Aidem, Maggie Burke, Defne Halman, Tom Lee, Lou
Liberatore, Craig Mathers, Annie Meisels, Evan Pappas, Ali
Poyrazoglu and Jennifer Dorr White.
',
			body: '


  (lh) 
 By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Hugely ambitious and blessed with a versatile, richly
talented cast, an excellent new play called ``Pera Palas'' arrived
Thursday night to engage the mind and grip the emotions.

   Its three intertwined stories embrace no less than the destiny
of a nation, the liberation of women and the fate of lovers. All
are linked to guests at the venerable Pera Palas Hotel. With its
action stretching from the last days of the Ottoman Empire in
Constantinople in 1918 to the reincarnated Istanbul of the Republic
of Turkey in 1994, ``Pera Palas'' pulses with passion and questing
intelligence.

   In the earliest of the stories, Evelyn Crawley (played by Betsy
Aidem), an English writer and feminist in Constantinople as World
War I and the Ottoman Empire near their end, is invited by Melek
(Defne Halman), a 15-year-old girl she met on an earlier visit, to
stay in her wealthy family's harem. The girl's father, Ali Riza
Efendi (Craig Mathers) is a member of the ruling elite. He has
arranged Melek's marriage to a man she has never met. Melek is
elated. But the outspoken Evelyn, who is astonished at Turkish
women's acceptance of harem life and appalled by their exclusion
from its male-dominated polygamous society, is dismayed.

   In the second of the intertwined stories, set in 1952 in a
Westernized Turkey, Kathy Miller (Annie Meisels), dismays her older
sister, Anne (Jennifer Dorr White), the wife of Joe (Mathers), a
boorish American businessman, by falling in love with Orhan
Bayraktar (Tom Lee), a handsome young progressive Turk.

   And in the third story, set in 1994, the Turkish-born Murat (Lou
Liberatore), returns to Istanbul with his American lover, Brian
(Evan Pappas), after nine years of estrangement from his parents
and his sister, a lawyer.

   Taking a long view of history and gazing clear-eyed and
unflinchingly at the consequences of political and personal
decisions, ``Pera Palas'' is the creation of Sinan Unel, a
Turkish-born writer who lives in the United States.

   For all the seriousness of his concerns, his play is alight with
comic touches. Directed smartly by Steven Williford for the Lark
Theater Company, ``Pera Palas'' also poses a fierce and probably
delightful challenge for its gifted cast, called upon to move
backward and forward in time and to change roles from story to
story, with men appearing from time to time as women and vice
versa.

   Mathers, for example, plays Joe and Ali but also appears as
Ipek, a comic maid, and Sir Robert Cave, a haughty British
diplomat. Ms. White plays Joe's very American wife but also is
Ali's first wife, the elegant French-speaking Neyime, as well as
Orhan's father, Osman. And Pappas, who is Ali's son, Cavid, is
replaced in that role in 1952, by Maggie Burke, who also plays
Ali's third wife, Ayse, and the older Kathy in 1994.

   ``Pera Palas'' also introduces American audiences to the
wide-ranging talent and star qualities of one of Turkey's foremost
actors, the mustached Ali Poyrazoglu, who appears initially in two
small comic roles. In the first, in the scenes set in 1918, he
appears as Adalet, a woman who came to dinner and stayed in the
harem. In the 1952 scenes, he appears as Bedia, young Orhan's
mother, smiling hypocritically below her rhinestone-studded
eyeglass frames while her tart Turkish tongue flays his intended
bride, Kathy, as too skinny and pale as a corpse.

   Finally, in a formidable portrayal of bitterness and agony,
Poyrazoglu emerges as the alcoholic Orhan of 1994 in a Turkey where
a rising tide of Islamic fundamentalism threatens the status of
women and other Westernizations instituted by Kemal Ataturk in the
1920s.

   On the world stage, as at the Mcginn/Cazale Theater, history
continues to play itself out.

   PRODUCTION NOTES:

   `PERA PALAS'

   By Sinan Unel; directed by Steven Williford; set by Larry
Gruber; lighting by Howell Binkley; costumes by Mirena Rada; sound
by Robert Murphy; original music by James Adler, with Scott Wilson;
production manager, Ed Teer; production stage manager, Jennifer G.
Birge; general manager, Roy Gabay. Presented by the Lark Theater
Company, John Clinton Eisner, producing director; Lesley Malin,
managing director. At the McGinn/Cazale Theater.

   With: Betsy Aidem, Maggie Burke, Defne Halman, Tom Lee, Lou
Liberatore, Craig Mathers, Annie Meisels, Evan Pappas, Ali
Poyrazoglu and Jennifer Dorr White.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0214 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 17:58 ',
			header: '
A5188 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-RENO-JASPER-1STLD-WRI     06-11 0597
',
			slug: ' BC-RENO-JASPER-1STLD-WRITETHRU-HNS ',
			headline: '
RENO PROMISES FEDERAL PROBE OF POSSIBLE RACIAL KILLING IN TEXAS 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Attorney General Janet Reno said Thursday the
Justice Department will investigate the case of three white men
accused of beating, then dragging a black man to his death in
Jasper, Texas.

   ``This is a terrible tragedy, and we're going to leave no stone
unturned in this investigation,'' Reno told Washington reporters
and a visiting group, the National Federation of Press Women, which
consists of women reporters, editors and publishers around the
country.

   Reno also said U.S. prosecuters in Texas were consulting with
state prosecutors to determine how the case should proceed.

   State officials have charged the three men with murder for
dragging James Byrd Jr., 49, to death behind a pickup truck on
Sunday near the East Texas town of about 8,000 people. Justice
Department officials are looking at possible federal charges
alleging that the men violated Byrd's civil rights, Reno said.

   The attorney general cautioned the press not to let any anger
over the crime interfere with their duty as reporters and editors
to cover the story fairly.

   ``You cannot repress the outrage that a crime like this evokes
... but the case should be tried in the courts, not the media,''
Reno said.

   Charged in the case are Lawrence R. Brewer, 31, of Sulfur
Springs, Texas, and Shawn A. Berry and John W. King, both 23, of
Jasper. The three are being held without bond in the Jasper County
Jail, and Pat Hardy, Jasper County assistant district attorney,
said in a telephone interview Thursday that local prosecutors are
considering charging the men also with kidnapping. ``We haven't
decided, but we're leaning toward it, he said.

   In Texas, committing murder in the course of a kidnapping or
certain other crimes is a capital offense, requiring the death
penalty.

   Two of the three suspects, King and Brewer, were cellmates in
prison, and their bodies are marked with racist tattoos, which led
police to believe the murder may have been racially motivated.

   The broken body of Byrd was discovered on a country road Sunday
morning by Jasper residents. As Byrd walked home from a niece's
bridal shower several hours earlier, he was apparently picked up by
the men and taken to some woods, where he was beaten, then chained
to the truck and dragged for two miles.

   According to police, items left in the woods and along the dirt
logging road where Byrd was found led officials to the three
suspects. One item was a cigarette lighter inscribed with a Ku Klux
Klan symbol and the word ``Possum,'' a prison nickname of King.
Another item was a torque-wrench set with the name Berry on it.

   Berry told the police in an affidavit that he had been riding
around with the other two men when he saw Byrd walking and offered
him a ride. Byrd and Berry might have known each other because they
had the same parole officer. Byrd had served six years in prison
for theft and violating parole. All three suspects have criminal
records for offenses including burglary and drug possession and
have served jail time together.

   Guy James Gray, the Jasper County district attorney, called the
killing ``probably the most brutal I've ever seen'' in 20 years as
a prosecutor. Byrd's torso was found at the edge of a paved road,
his head and an arm in a ditch about a mile away.
',
			body: '


  
 (EDs: SUBS the term U.S. prosecuters for U.S. attorney staffers in
3d graf.)   (For use by New York Times News Service clients.)  
 By MARK HELM  
 c.1998 Hearst Newspapers  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Attorney General Janet Reno said Thursday the
Justice Department will investigate the case of three white men
accused of beating, then dragging a black man to his death in
Jasper, Texas.

   ``This is a terrible tragedy, and we're going to leave no stone
unturned in this investigation,'' Reno told Washington reporters
and a visiting group, the National Federation of Press Women, which
consists of women reporters, editors and publishers around the
country.

   Reno also said U.S. prosecuters in Texas were consulting with
state prosecutors to determine how the case should proceed.

   State officials have charged the three men with murder for
dragging James Byrd Jr., 49, to death behind a pickup truck on
Sunday near the East Texas town of about 8,000 people. Justice
Department officials are looking at possible federal charges
alleging that the men violated Byrd's civil rights, Reno said.

   The attorney general cautioned the press not to let any anger
over the crime interfere with their duty as reporters and editors
to cover the story fairly.

   ``You cannot repress the outrage that a crime like this evokes
... but the case should be tried in the courts, not the media,''
Reno said.

   Charged in the case are Lawrence R. Brewer, 31, of Sulfur
Springs, Texas, and Shawn A. Berry and John W. King, both 23, of
Jasper. The three are being held without bond in the Jasper County
Jail, and Pat Hardy, Jasper County assistant district attorney,
said in a telephone interview Thursday that local prosecutors are
considering charging the men also with kidnapping. ``We haven't
decided, but we're leaning toward it, he said.

   In Texas, committing murder in the course of a kidnapping or
certain other crimes is a capital offense, requiring the death
penalty.

   Two of the three suspects, King and Brewer, were cellmates in
prison, and their bodies are marked with racist tattoos, which led
police to believe the murder may have been racially motivated.

   The broken body of Byrd was discovered on a country road Sunday
morning by Jasper residents. As Byrd walked home from a niece's
bridal shower several hours earlier, he was apparently picked up by
the men and taken to some woods, where he was beaten, then chained
to the truck and dragged for two miles.

   According to police, items left in the woods and along the dirt
logging road where Byrd was found led officials to the three
suspects. One item was a cigarette lighter inscribed with a Ku Klux
Klan symbol and the word ``Possum,'' a prison nickname of King.
Another item was a torque-wrench set with the name Berry on it.

   Berry told the police in an affidavit that he had been riding
around with the other two men when he saw Byrd walking and offered
him a ride. Byrd and Berry might have known each other because they
had the same parole officer. Byrd had served six years in prison
for theft and violating parole. All three suspects have criminal
records for offenses including burglary and drug possession and
have served jail time together.

   Guy James Gray, the Jasper County district attorney, called the
killing ``probably the most brutal I've ever seen'' in 20 years as
a prosecutor. Byrd's torso was found at the edge of a paved road,
his head and an arm in a ditch about a mile away.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0215 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:09 ',
			header: '
A5204 &Cx1f; tad-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-AIR-PASSENGERS-COX &UR;  &UR; ` HOUSEPANELTOLD   06-11 0557
',
			slug: ' BC-AIR-PASSENGERS-COX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Carol Knaffl was using an airliner's lavatory last
March after most passengers had left the plane. But when the flight
attendant stepped out, she found a passenger unzipping his pants.
After exposing himself, he began urinating on her.

   ``His urine ran onto my pants, legs, feet and shoes,'' Knaffl
told a House Transportation subcommittee Thursday.

   Her graphic story is just one example of the growing phenomenon
of ``air rage,'' in which passengers physically or verbally assault
crew members or other passengers. The number of incidents tripled
to nearly 300 between 1991 and 1997, according to the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA).

   ``We have had members screamed at, threatened, kicked, punched,
hit, slammed against galley walls _ all by outraged passengers,''
testified Patricia Friend, international president of the
Association of Flight Attendants.

   Friend urged the FAA to ``put more pressure'' on major
commercial carriers to protect crew members from passengers' unruly
behavior. Knaffl said she felt betrayed by her employer and the FAA
for their failure to respond to the incident.

   The flight attendants' group and the FAA released a ``zero
tolerance'' advisory in 1996 that spelled out how flight crews,
airport security officers and law enforcement agents should handle
abusive passengers. But few carriers have adopted an assault
policy, Friend said.

   It's not clear what's causing the surge in passenger
misbehavior, but alcohol is a factor in up to 25 percent of
incidents, the committee was told.

   Stephen Luckey, chairman of the Air Line Pilots Association's
National Security Committee, suggested that major carriers adopt a
stricter alcohol service policy, including limiting passengers to
one drink per hour of flight time.

   The wave of passenger interference has also been linked to
disputes over carry-on bags, and other witnesses before the
subcommittee discussed a bill drafted last year by Rep. William
Lipinski, D-Ill., that would limit passengers to one carry-on bag.

   Too many oversized bags in overhead bins can be dangerous when a
speedy evacuation is needed, said Shelley Longmuir, spokeswoman for
United Airlines.

   But other airline representatives and the FAA did not support
the proposed limit.

   Joan Wilson, spokeswoman for Delta Airlines, said it would cause
difficulties for passengers who want to travel with a purse and a
laptop computer or briefcase.

   In April, Delta became the first major U.S. carrier to implement
a strict two-bag policy. The only exceptions are devices for the
disabled and food to be eaten on board.

   Wilson and Longmuir called on the FAA to develop a uniform
standard for the entire industry.

   In 1988, the FAA required that each airline adopt a policy on
how carry-on baggage would be stored. But it set no limits on the
number of bags or their size.

   FAA spokesman Guy Gardner testified that while the FAA would
shortly issue an advisory that would clarify the definitions of
carry-on baggage, limiting passengers to one bag went beyond the
FAA's mandate, which is strictly concerned with passenger safety.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
',
			body: '

     `AIR RAGE' ON THE RISE, HOUSE PANEL TOLD
 &HT;     By SAMAR ABULHASSAN 
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Carol Knaffl was using an airliner's lavatory last
March after most passengers had left the plane. But when the flight
attendant stepped out, she found a passenger unzipping his pants.
After exposing himself, he began urinating on her.

   ``His urine ran onto my pants, legs, feet and shoes,'' Knaffl
told a House Transportation subcommittee Thursday.

   Her graphic story is just one example of the growing phenomenon
of ``air rage,'' in which passengers physically or verbally assault
crew members or other passengers. The number of incidents tripled
to nearly 300 between 1991 and 1997, according to the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA).

   ``We have had members screamed at, threatened, kicked, punched,
hit, slammed against galley walls _ all by outraged passengers,''
testified Patricia Friend, international president of the
Association of Flight Attendants.

   Friend urged the FAA to ``put more pressure'' on major
commercial carriers to protect crew members from passengers' unruly
behavior. Knaffl said she felt betrayed by her employer and the FAA
for their failure to respond to the incident.

   The flight attendants' group and the FAA released a ``zero
tolerance'' advisory in 1996 that spelled out how flight crews,
airport security officers and law enforcement agents should handle
abusive passengers. But few carriers have adopted an assault
policy, Friend said.

   It's not clear what's causing the surge in passenger
misbehavior, but alcohol is a factor in up to 25 percent of
incidents, the committee was told.

   Stephen Luckey, chairman of the Air Line Pilots Association's
National Security Committee, suggested that major carriers adopt a
stricter alcohol service policy, including limiting passengers to
one drink per hour of flight time.

   The wave of passenger interference has also been linked to
disputes over carry-on bags, and other witnesses before the
subcommittee discussed a bill drafted last year by Rep. William
Lipinski, D-Ill., that would limit passengers to one carry-on bag.

   Too many oversized bags in overhead bins can be dangerous when a
speedy evacuation is needed, said Shelley Longmuir, spokeswoman for
United Airlines.

   But other airline representatives and the FAA did not support
the proposed limit.

   Joan Wilson, spokeswoman for Delta Airlines, said it would cause
difficulties for passengers who want to travel with a purse and a
laptop computer or briefcase.

   In April, Delta became the first major U.S. carrier to implement
a strict two-bag policy. The only exceptions are devices for the
disabled and food to be eaten on board.

   Wilson and Longmuir called on the FAA to develop a uniform
standard for the entire industry.

   In 1988, the FAA required that each airline adopt a policy on
how carry-on baggage would be stored. But it set no limits on the
number of bags or their size.

   FAA spokesman Guy Gardner testified that while the FAA would
shortly issue an advisory that would clarify the definitions of
carry-on baggage, limiting passengers to one bag went beyond the
FAA's mandate, which is strictly concerned with passenger safety.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0216 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:14 ',
			header: '
A5212 &Cx1f; tad-z
a e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BOOKS-MONK-COX     06-11 0363
',
			slug: ' BC-BOOKS-MONK-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;    
 &HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   Frank McCourt's moving, Pulitzer Prize-winning memoir,
``Angela's Ashes,'' has been on the best seller lists for nearly
two years. Now his brother Malachy McCourt, riding Frank's
coattails, is cashing in on the family name in a book about his
life.

   Malachy left Limerick, Ireland, to return to America in 1952,
and, in between drinks, worked on the docks, opened a saloon, acted
in theater, married and had two children, lost said wife and
children, appeared regularly on ``The Jack Paar Show'' and smuggled
gold. The mother, Angela, reappears in America, and so does the
McCourts' drunken absentee father.

   This in-your-face memoir, alternating between being a rollicking
good read and a somewhat wearing litany of anecdotes, may generate
schizophrenic responses. Part of the time you'll laugh out loud,
charmed and amazed at the syntax. But most often, Malachy McCourt
comes across as selfish and self-absorbed, fatal characteristics in
a memoir.

   To his credit, he is honest about his flaws, but his tale is
told with almost no reflection or compassion.

   At the very end one senses that Malachy might be turning around
his life: a suggestion to his alcoholic father that he seek out AA
hints at the possibility Malachy himself is going. And in a final,
brutal scene, he recognizes that he has become his father.

   But any change in character happens outside these pages. Only on
the book jacket do we learn that Malachy McCourt is now happily
married, the father of five and grandfather of three. So while the
prose is brisk as Irish whiskey and the anecdotes often sparkle
like Galway Bay, this book may leave you, as it did this reviewer,
with a bad taste in your mouth and a strong wish to avoid further
McCourt family sequels.

   A Monk Swimming. By Malachy McCourt. Hyperion. $23.95. 320
pages.

   The verdict: An in-your-face memoir told with little reflection.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    What's in a name?
 &HT;    A brother's tale
 &HT;    (EMBARGOED UNTIL JUNE 14: DO NOT USE BEFORE THEN)
 &HT;    By Carolyn Nizzi Warmbold
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   Frank McCourt's moving, Pulitzer Prize-winning memoir,
``Angela's Ashes,'' has been on the best seller lists for nearly
two years. Now his brother Malachy McCourt, riding Frank's
coattails, is cashing in on the family name in a book about his
life.

   Malachy left Limerick, Ireland, to return to America in 1952,
and, in between drinks, worked on the docks, opened a saloon, acted
in theater, married and had two children, lost said wife and
children, appeared regularly on ``The Jack Paar Show'' and smuggled
gold. The mother, Angela, reappears in America, and so does the
McCourts' drunken absentee father.

   This in-your-face memoir, alternating between being a rollicking
good read and a somewhat wearing litany of anecdotes, may generate
schizophrenic responses. Part of the time you'll laugh out loud,
charmed and amazed at the syntax. But most often, Malachy McCourt
comes across as selfish and self-absorbed, fatal characteristics in
a memoir.

   To his credit, he is honest about his flaws, but his tale is
told with almost no reflection or compassion.

   At the very end one senses that Malachy might be turning around
his life: a suggestion to his alcoholic father that he seek out AA
hints at the possibility Malachy himself is going. And in a final,
brutal scene, he recognizes that he has become his father.

   But any change in character happens outside these pages. Only on
the book jacket do we learn that Malachy McCourt is now happily
married, the father of five and grandfather of three. So while the
prose is brisk as Irish whiskey and the anecdotes often sparkle
like Galway Bay, this book may leave you, as it did this reviewer,
with a bad taste in your mouth and a strong wish to avoid further
McCourt family sequels.

   A Monk Swimming. By Malachy McCourt. Hyperion. $23.95. 320
pages.

   The verdict: An in-your-face memoir told with little reflection.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0217 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:14 ',
			header: '
A5214 &Cx1f; tad-z
a t &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TRAVEL-TENN-COX     06-11 1840
',
			slug: ' BC-TRAVEL-TENN-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;    
 &HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   Townsend, Tenn.

   Morning is breaking over the Smokies, and for collectors of
sunrises, this one's a real promise keeper.

   Cotton ball clouds shrouding the endless gray peaks gently start
to lift as the fireball sun inches its way up in the east. Soon, a
tangerine glow stretches across the horizon, highlighting
curvaceous ridge upon ridge upon ridge.

   We're 2,200 feet up at Look Rock, one of the highest observation
points in these mountains, peering out over a dense forest tree
cover. And though the leaves mostly shield signs of stirring below,
momentarily we hear a daybreak chorus warming its vocal cords. The
roosters, of course, are first to greet the dawn. Then the
woodpeckers put their chisels to work, and other fine feathered
friends sing out. Even hounds speak up, perhaps if only to test how
far their baying will echo across the ridgetops.

   It's the sound of the Smokies rising and shining. And if you
prefer your mountains sunny side up _ as opposed to two
tourist-loving towns nearby where nature is scrambled with outlet
malls and neon-drenched nightclubs _ you've come to the right
place.

   Townsend bills itself as ``The Peaceful Side of the Smokies.''
It's a polite way of saying that if your idea of mountain fun is,
oh, an indoor go-cart track or the Comedy Barn (a corn pone humor
showplace where the star attraction is ``Arnold the Mind Reading
Pig''), you'd be more at home up the highway in Gatlinburg or
Pigeon Forge.

   In Townsend, the western entrance to the Great Smoky Mountains
National Park, nature's the star attraction.

   The 1.5 million visitors who enter the park annually from this
sneeze-and-you-may-miss-it town of 400 come to hike, bike and ride
horses. Explore a cavern or identify wildflowers. Fly-fish in, tube
down or even cannonball into the startlingly clear Little River
(which rushes merrily along right beside the town's main drag, U.S.
321/Lamar Alexander Parkway). Or seek solitude and spot wildlife in
Cades Cove, the 1,800-acre outdoor museum of pioneer mountain life
tucked into the national park near the Townsend entrance.

   It was along Cades Cove's 11-mile loop road at another sunrise
that we encountered Liliane Jevey, a Belgian-born legal secretary
from suburban Orlando who makes a Smokies pilgrimage twice a year
on her Harley-Davidson.

   She reported that just before dawn, ``Two white-tail does with a
yearling went right by my tent!''

   Behind the white clapboard Methodist church, binoculars in hand,
she strode through tall fescue in search of more wildlife. Perhaps,
if she were lucky, she'd bag a glance at the cove's most popular
beast: a black bear, preferably with a cub or two.

   She stood still for a few minutes until she saw something stir _
a deer, it turned out. ``There's one,'' she said, pointing deep
into the dewy pasture. Then, in a blink, it bounded into nearby
woods. ``Oops, gone.''

   On the way back to her hog, she revealed that she plans to
return here one day _ for eternity. ``Believe it or not, I have in
my will that my ashes be scattered on that hill (above the
pasture). The last time I was here, I said, `This is it.'''

   The longer we spent amid the deep forest, meadows and old
homesteads of Cades Cove, remote Indian land taken over by white
settlers in the 1820s and purchased by the government for the park
a little more than a century later, the better we understood
Jevey's wish.

   Perhaps it's the austere graveyards behind the cove's churches.
Or maybe it's the stillness enveloping the surviving cabins, mills
and barns. Whatever, the cove feels like sacred ground. Everyone
who visits seems to realize it. Even strangers comparing notes on
wildlife sightings speak quietly, as if in a library. That alone
may be the best testimony: Here, strangers speak.

   At one nature stop, we got the Cades Cove scoop from brothers
Chris and Jeremy Dubois, ages 13 and 11, who were enjoying a kingly
view from plastic patio chairs on the back of their grandparents'
Toyota pickup.

   Veterans of a half-dozen Smokies campouts, the siblings from
Perry, Ga., said they'd seen a copperhead chase a bear here once,
and learned that when a skunk visits the best thing to do is sit
absolutely still.

   Chris sported a Notre Dame cap; his kid brother professed being
a New England Patriots fan. But on the topic of favorite Smokies
campfire food, they were in accord: ``S'mores!'' To which grandma
Pam Thomas shouted back from the cab with mock indignation: ``What
about pancakes and scrambled eggs?''

   Later that morning we came across plenty of folks on the Little
River who were working up mountain-man-sized appetites, including a
couple of fishermen who were trying to do something about theirs.

   Texan Kelly Barbee and his future father-in-law, Buster Garrett,
who runs a drywall business in nearby Wears Valley, were slipping
from rounded boulder to boulder amid the rushing rapids while
fly-fishing for rainbow trout. Nothing was biting, but at least it
was about 10 degrees cooler in the water than on the nearby
pavement.

   ``Oh, man, I'd rather be doing this than anything,'' Barbee
said. ``I love it up here.''

   And how would they fix the fish if they caught some?

   Garrett looked at his city-slicker questioner as if the question
itself was fishy. ``Just put a little meal on 'em,'' he grumbled,
``and throw 'em in the skillet.''

   Ah, simple small-town pleasures ... can't beat 'em.

   That's what we were thinking when we came across 10 teens
downriver, doing fancy flips and an occasional belly-flop off the
River Road bridge. The short-haired 16-year-olds, dragging on cigs
between acrobatic dives into the water some 30 feet below, seemed
straight out of a '50s yearbook.

   Turns out, Heritage High School had just let out the day before
_ cause for celebration, for sure. Even the park ranger who pulled
over to tell them to stop sprinting across the busy road (building
up momentum for their dives), cut them some slack: He didn't halt
their bridge Olympics.

   Asked if their Blount County school was located in Townsend, one
retorted as only a high-school wiseacre could, ``Nah, it's in a cow
pasture.'' To which another added dismissively, ``There's nothing
in Townsend.''

   OK, so the truth hurts. There really isn't much to do if you're
staying in this modest town beyond exploring the mountains and
valleys _ or, if you're feeling particularly unambitious, examining
the insides of your eyelids. But so what if Townsend isn't exactly
the SoHo of the Smokies? Or if too many of its restaurants dish up
greasy ``home cookin''' that you wouldn't want in your home?

   Barry Wright, keeping an eagle eye on 8-year-old daughter Kacey
and 4-year-old son Landon as they erected a rock fort in the
currents at the Little River area known simply as ``the Y,'' sure
had no complaint.

   The Knoxville computer salesman said Townsend brings back happy
childhood vacation memories of when his parents took him to
Gatlinburg and Pigeon Forge, now famed as the town Dolly Parton
overbuilt.

   ``But the big landholders sold out to the developers and now
they're so crowded and traffic-y,'' he lamented. ``Fortunately,
Townsend is still pretty commercial free. Everything's a little
quieter here.''

   That said, Wright had nonetheless proposed to his two sisters
and their rental cabin full of children that they do something
different that night and motor up to Pigeon Forge for dinner.

   ``Everybody quickly said `ix-nay' to that.''

   Some locals fear that an upcoming expansion of U.S. 321 _ from a
pokey two-lane to a parkway of four or five lanes, with three
roundabouts at intersections that are especially congested during
the tourist months _ smacks of creeping Pigeon Forge-ism.

   But Linda Eaves, tourism chief for the Smoky Mountain Visitors
Bureau in Townsend, says she believes the town won't have to give
up its ``Peaceful Side'' slogan.

   ``If everybody agrees on one thing here, it's that we want to
maintain the beauty and pristineness,'' she says.

   Eaves also points out that the town's lack of a sewer system
(septic tanks are used instead) limits the likelihood of a
commercial boom. Rather than seeing gold in Golden Arches and other
franchises, town leaders are pushing locally owned businesses to
add folksy log-cabin facades, in keeping with the area's
Appalachian heritage.

   So for now, it's safe to assume that if you visit you'll likely
find Larry Morgan beside the main road, selling hand-stripped
walking sticks perfect for a hilly hike. For 2 1/2 years, he's been
setting up shop on the shoulder, leaning a long row of the dogwood,
sassafras, maple and red oak sticks against his Chevy pickup, and
waiting for easy touches like us to stop by. And you can also rest
assured that if you want to fly-fish beneath the recently rebuilt
Little River suspension bridge, Earvel Boyd won't crowd you, no
matter how bad he wants to hook some supper.

   Spotting another fisherman one recent afternoon, Boyd, who
drives a Dodge van with a ``Christ is the Answer'' license plate,
waited patiently by the side of the road.

   ``I don't want to get down there in that boy's pocket,'' the
retiree explained, looking to the sky to read how much time he had
before sunset.

   In a quiet town like Townsend, visitors and home folks alike
sure appreciate a little elbow room.

   IF YOU GO

   LODGING

   -- Cabins: With more than 325, Townsend's got plenty. They're a
good bet for extended families and, given the shortage of great
eateries here, visitors who like to cook. The bigger rental
agencies include: Bearly Rustic Cabin Rentals, 1-888-448-6036;
Dogwood Cabin Rentals, 1-888-448-9054; Laurel Valley Cabin Rentals,
423-448-6697; Old Smoky Mountain Cabins, 1-800-739-4820.

   -- Inns: Misty Morning Bed &AMP; Breakfast (423-681-6373) in nearby
Walland and Terrapin Point Retreat Bed and Breakfast (423-448-6010)
both feature mountain vistas. Twin Valley Bed and Breakfast and
Horse Ranch (1-800-872-2235) in Walland offers opportunities for
horse lovers.

   -- Chain hotels: Several are represented along U.S. 321,
including Hampton Inn (423-448-9000) and Best Western
(423-448-2237).

   -- Camping: Numerous campgrounds, including one in Cades Cove,
open May 15-Oct. 31 (1-800-365-2267).

   HIKING

   -- Spruce Flat Falls waterfall is an easy 2-mile hike from Great
Smoky Mountains Institute at the Treemont area.

   -- Abrams Falls in Cades Cove is a moderate 5-mile hike.

   -- Chestnut Top trail is an ambitious 9-mile wildflower walk,
starting near the Townsend ``Y.''

   INFORMATION

   Smoky Mountain Visitors Bureau, 1-800-525-6834. Or on the Web:
chamber.blount.tn.us/smokymvb

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    A slice of Tennessee, so simply scenic and serene, is the
Smokies' yin to the tourist-ridden yang
 &HT;    (EMBARGOED UNTIL JUNE 14: DO NOT USE BEFORE THEN)
 &HT;    By Howard Pousner
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   Townsend, Tenn.

   Morning is breaking over the Smokies, and for collectors of
sunrises, this one's a real promise keeper.

   Cotton ball clouds shrouding the endless gray peaks gently start
to lift as the fireball sun inches its way up in the east. Soon, a
tangerine glow stretches across the horizon, highlighting
curvaceous ridge upon ridge upon ridge.

   We're 2,200 feet up at Look Rock, one of the highest observation
points in these mountains, peering out over a dense forest tree
cover. And though the leaves mostly shield signs of stirring below,
momentarily we hear a daybreak chorus warming its vocal cords. The
roosters, of course, are first to greet the dawn. Then the
woodpeckers put their chisels to work, and other fine feathered
friends sing out. Even hounds speak up, perhaps if only to test how
far their baying will echo across the ridgetops.

   It's the sound of the Smokies rising and shining. And if you
prefer your mountains sunny side up _ as opposed to two
tourist-loving towns nearby where nature is scrambled with outlet
malls and neon-drenched nightclubs _ you've come to the right
place.

   Townsend bills itself as ``The Peaceful Side of the Smokies.''
It's a polite way of saying that if your idea of mountain fun is,
oh, an indoor go-cart track or the Comedy Barn (a corn pone humor
showplace where the star attraction is ``Arnold the Mind Reading
Pig''), you'd be more at home up the highway in Gatlinburg or
Pigeon Forge.

   In Townsend, the western entrance to the Great Smoky Mountains
National Park, nature's the star attraction.

   The 1.5 million visitors who enter the park annually from this
sneeze-and-you-may-miss-it town of 400 come to hike, bike and ride
horses. Explore a cavern or identify wildflowers. Fly-fish in, tube
down or even cannonball into the startlingly clear Little River
(which rushes merrily along right beside the town's main drag, U.S.
321/Lamar Alexander Parkway). Or seek solitude and spot wildlife in
Cades Cove, the 1,800-acre outdoor museum of pioneer mountain life
tucked into the national park near the Townsend entrance.

   It was along Cades Cove's 11-mile loop road at another sunrise
that we encountered Liliane Jevey, a Belgian-born legal secretary
from suburban Orlando who makes a Smokies pilgrimage twice a year
on her Harley-Davidson.

   She reported that just before dawn, ``Two white-tail does with a
yearling went right by my tent!''

   Behind the white clapboard Methodist church, binoculars in hand,
she strode through tall fescue in search of more wildlife. Perhaps,
if she were lucky, she'd bag a glance at the cove's most popular
beast: a black bear, preferably with a cub or two.

   She stood still for a few minutes until she saw something stir _
a deer, it turned out. ``There's one,'' she said, pointing deep
into the dewy pasture. Then, in a blink, it bounded into nearby
woods. ``Oops, gone.''

   On the way back to her hog, she revealed that she plans to
return here one day _ for eternity. ``Believe it or not, I have in
my will that my ashes be scattered on that hill (above the
pasture). The last time I was here, I said, `This is it.'''

   The longer we spent amid the deep forest, meadows and old
homesteads of Cades Cove, remote Indian land taken over by white
settlers in the 1820s and purchased by the government for the park
a little more than a century later, the better we understood
Jevey's wish.

   Perhaps it's the austere graveyards behind the cove's churches.
Or maybe it's the stillness enveloping the surviving cabins, mills
and barns. Whatever, the cove feels like sacred ground. Everyone
who visits seems to realize it. Even strangers comparing notes on
wildlife sightings speak quietly, as if in a library. That alone
may be the best testimony: Here, strangers speak.

   At one nature stop, we got the Cades Cove scoop from brothers
Chris and Jeremy Dubois, ages 13 and 11, who were enjoying a kingly
view from plastic patio chairs on the back of their grandparents'
Toyota pickup.

   Veterans of a half-dozen Smokies campouts, the siblings from
Perry, Ga., said they'd seen a copperhead chase a bear here once,
and learned that when a skunk visits the best thing to do is sit
absolutely still.

   Chris sported a Notre Dame cap; his kid brother professed being
a New England Patriots fan. But on the topic of favorite Smokies
campfire food, they were in accord: ``S'mores!'' To which grandma
Pam Thomas shouted back from the cab with mock indignation: ``What
about pancakes and scrambled eggs?''

   Later that morning we came across plenty of folks on the Little
River who were working up mountain-man-sized appetites, including a
couple of fishermen who were trying to do something about theirs.

   Texan Kelly Barbee and his future father-in-law, Buster Garrett,
who runs a drywall business in nearby Wears Valley, were slipping
from rounded boulder to boulder amid the rushing rapids while
fly-fishing for rainbow trout. Nothing was biting, but at least it
was about 10 degrees cooler in the water than on the nearby
pavement.

   ``Oh, man, I'd rather be doing this than anything,'' Barbee
said. ``I love it up here.''

   And how would they fix the fish if they caught some?

   Garrett looked at his city-slicker questioner as if the question
itself was fishy. ``Just put a little meal on 'em,'' he grumbled,
``and throw 'em in the skillet.''

   Ah, simple small-town pleasures ... can't beat 'em.

   That's what we were thinking when we came across 10 teens
downriver, doing fancy flips and an occasional belly-flop off the
River Road bridge. The short-haired 16-year-olds, dragging on cigs
between acrobatic dives into the water some 30 feet below, seemed
straight out of a '50s yearbook.

   Turns out, Heritage High School had just let out the day before
_ cause for celebration, for sure. Even the park ranger who pulled
over to tell them to stop sprinting across the busy road (building
up momentum for their dives), cut them some slack: He didn't halt
their bridge Olympics.

   Asked if their Blount County school was located in Townsend, one
retorted as only a high-school wiseacre could, ``Nah, it's in a cow
pasture.'' To which another added dismissively, ``There's nothing
in Townsend.''

   OK, so the truth hurts. There really isn't much to do if you're
staying in this modest town beyond exploring the mountains and
valleys _ or, if you're feeling particularly unambitious, examining
the insides of your eyelids. But so what if Townsend isn't exactly
the SoHo of the Smokies? Or if too many of its restaurants dish up
greasy ``home cookin''' that you wouldn't want in your home?

   Barry Wright, keeping an eagle eye on 8-year-old daughter Kacey
and 4-year-old son Landon as they erected a rock fort in the
currents at the Little River area known simply as ``the Y,'' sure
had no complaint.

   The Knoxville computer salesman said Townsend brings back happy
childhood vacation memories of when his parents took him to
Gatlinburg and Pigeon Forge, now famed as the town Dolly Parton
overbuilt.

   ``But the big landholders sold out to the developers and now
they're so crowded and traffic-y,'' he lamented. ``Fortunately,
Townsend is still pretty commercial free. Everything's a little
quieter here.''

   That said, Wright had nonetheless proposed to his two sisters
and their rental cabin full of children that they do something
different that night and motor up to Pigeon Forge for dinner.

   ``Everybody quickly said `ix-nay' to that.''

   Some locals fear that an upcoming expansion of U.S. 321 _ from a
pokey two-lane to a parkway of four or five lanes, with three
roundabouts at intersections that are especially congested during
the tourist months _ smacks of creeping Pigeon Forge-ism.

   But Linda Eaves, tourism chief for the Smoky Mountain Visitors
Bureau in Townsend, says she believes the town won't have to give
up its ``Peaceful Side'' slogan.

   ``If everybody agrees on one thing here, it's that we want to
maintain the beauty and pristineness,'' she says.

   Eaves also points out that the town's lack of a sewer system
(septic tanks are used instead) limits the likelihood of a
commercial boom. Rather than seeing gold in Golden Arches and other
franchises, town leaders are pushing locally owned businesses to
add folksy log-cabin facades, in keeping with the area's
Appalachian heritage.

   So for now, it's safe to assume that if you visit you'll likely
find Larry Morgan beside the main road, selling hand-stripped
walking sticks perfect for a hilly hike. For 2 1/2 years, he's been
setting up shop on the shoulder, leaning a long row of the dogwood,
sassafras, maple and red oak sticks against his Chevy pickup, and
waiting for easy touches like us to stop by. And you can also rest
assured that if you want to fly-fish beneath the recently rebuilt
Little River suspension bridge, Earvel Boyd won't crowd you, no
matter how bad he wants to hook some supper.

   Spotting another fisherman one recent afternoon, Boyd, who
drives a Dodge van with a ``Christ is the Answer'' license plate,
waited patiently by the side of the road.

   ``I don't want to get down there in that boy's pocket,'' the
retiree explained, looking to the sky to read how much time he had
before sunset.

   In a quiet town like Townsend, visitors and home folks alike
sure appreciate a little elbow room.

   IF YOU GO

   LODGING

   -- Cabins: With more than 325, Townsend's got plenty. They're a
good bet for extended families and, given the shortage of great
eateries here, visitors who like to cook. The bigger rental
agencies include: Bearly Rustic Cabin Rentals, 1-888-448-6036;
Dogwood Cabin Rentals, 1-888-448-9054; Laurel Valley Cabin Rentals,
423-448-6697; Old Smoky Mountain Cabins, 1-800-739-4820.

   -- Inns: Misty Morning Bed &AMP; Breakfast (423-681-6373) in nearby
Walland and Terrapin Point Retreat Bed and Breakfast (423-448-6010)
both feature mountain vistas. Twin Valley Bed and Breakfast and
Horse Ranch (1-800-872-2235) in Walland offers opportunities for
horse lovers.

   -- Chain hotels: Several are represented along U.S. 321,
including Hampton Inn (423-448-9000) and Best Western
(423-448-2237).

   -- Camping: Numerous campgrounds, including one in Cades Cove,
open May 15-Oct. 31 (1-800-365-2267).

   HIKING

   -- Spruce Flat Falls waterfall is an easy 2-mile hike from Great
Smoky Mountains Institute at the Treemont area.

   -- Abrams Falls in Cades Cove is a moderate 5-mile hike.

   -- Chestnut Top trail is an ambitious 9-mile wildflower walk,
starting near the Townsend ``Y.''

   INFORMATION

   Smoky Mountain Visitors Bureau, 1-800-525-6834. Or on the Web:
chamber.blount.tn.us/smokymvb

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0218 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:14 ',
			header: '
A5215 &Cx1f; gen-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-STATES-CHILE-NAT     06-11 0556
',
			slug: ' BC-STATES-CHILE-NAT ',
			headline: '
&HT;     
 &HT;    
 &HT;      PORTLAND LAWYER SET FOR CHILEAN DIPLOMACY
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON, June 11 -- Portland lawyer John O'Leary cleared his
first hurdle Thursday in his nomination as U.S. ambassador to Chile
in a hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, winning
favorable reviews as he staked out positions on salmon and weapons
trade.

   O'Leary, a former city councilman and mayor of Portland, now a
partner at Maine's largest firm, Pierce Atwood in Portland, told
the panel that the ambassadorship would be a crowning achievement
in a career that has taken him back and forth through the Americas.

   ``I have enjoyed the good fortune over the years to develop a
deep appreciation for Latin American and for Chile,'' he said.
``The Americans have been the focus of some of my most challenging
and rewarding assignments in a 24-year career in the private
practice of law.''

   He has advised Bolivia on sustainable economic development,
worked with an arbitration commission on Latin American issues and
headed an environmental committee of the Inter-American Bar
Association that focused on Chile and other South American nations.

   All of which was not lost on the state's delegation, which
heaped praise on the Portland lawyer while acknowledging that his
presence in Santiago could help Maine businesses, particularly in
the dispute over Chilean salmon exports.

   ``This experience will help him grapple with the complexities of
U.S.-Chilean economic relations during an important period in which
our citizens have significant trade disputes with Chile, but also
enjoy significant trading opportunities -- both with Chile and the
rest of Latin America,'' said Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine.

   ``While he may be knew to foreign service (in the State
Department),'' said Rep. John Baldacci, D-Bangor, ``he's no
stranger to Latin America.''

   The delegation has been leading the attack for Maine's salmon
industry, contending the Chilean salmon industry has been dumping
its product on U.S. shores at below market prices. The Commerce
Department has ruled that a few Chilean salmon farmers are guilty
of dumping, and the Maine industry is awaiting an International
Trade Commission ruling to see if a tariff is imposed, which could
range from 2 percent to 11 percent.

   But O'Leary cautioned that the salmon dispute was one issue in a
sea of bilateral trade that is now worth $7 billion a year, making
the United States the largest trading partner for Chile.

   Sens. Paul Coverdell, R-Ga., and Christopher Dodd, D-Conn.,
members of the committee who conducted the hearing, warned O'Leary
that his first major task may be handling an emerging arms race in
South America -- in the wake of a Clinton administration decision
to allow U.S. defense contractors to sell fighter jets to Chile.

   After the hearing, Sen. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine, said O'Leary
faced no opposition and predicted his nomination could quickly sail
through the Senate for confirmation.

   On a personal note, Rep. Tom Allen, D-Portland, recalled
battling O'Leary in the courtroom during his days in private
practice, saying those days had prepared O'Leary for the tough
times that lie ahead. ``He has the intelligence for this job, he
has the personal skills,'' Allen said.
',
			body: '


 &HT;     By Paul Kane  
 &HT;    c. 1998 States News Service  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON, June 11 -- Portland lawyer John O'Leary cleared his
first hurdle Thursday in his nomination as U.S. ambassador to Chile
in a hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, winning
favorable reviews as he staked out positions on salmon and weapons
trade.

   O'Leary, a former city councilman and mayor of Portland, now a
partner at Maine's largest firm, Pierce Atwood in Portland, told
the panel that the ambassadorship would be a crowning achievement
in a career that has taken him back and forth through the Americas.

   ``I have enjoyed the good fortune over the years to develop a
deep appreciation for Latin American and for Chile,'' he said.
``The Americans have been the focus of some of my most challenging
and rewarding assignments in a 24-year career in the private
practice of law.''

   He has advised Bolivia on sustainable economic development,
worked with an arbitration commission on Latin American issues and
headed an environmental committee of the Inter-American Bar
Association that focused on Chile and other South American nations.

   All of which was not lost on the state's delegation, which
heaped praise on the Portland lawyer while acknowledging that his
presence in Santiago could help Maine businesses, particularly in
the dispute over Chilean salmon exports.

   ``This experience will help him grapple with the complexities of
U.S.-Chilean economic relations during an important period in which
our citizens have significant trade disputes with Chile, but also
enjoy significant trading opportunities -- both with Chile and the
rest of Latin America,'' said Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine.

   ``While he may be knew to foreign service (in the State
Department),'' said Rep. John Baldacci, D-Bangor, ``he's no
stranger to Latin America.''

   The delegation has been leading the attack for Maine's salmon
industry, contending the Chilean salmon industry has been dumping
its product on U.S. shores at below market prices. The Commerce
Department has ruled that a few Chilean salmon farmers are guilty
of dumping, and the Maine industry is awaiting an International
Trade Commission ruling to see if a tariff is imposed, which could
range from 2 percent to 11 percent.

   But O'Leary cautioned that the salmon dispute was one issue in a
sea of bilateral trade that is now worth $7 billion a year, making
the United States the largest trading partner for Chile.

   Sens. Paul Coverdell, R-Ga., and Christopher Dodd, D-Conn.,
members of the committee who conducted the hearing, warned O'Leary
that his first major task may be handling an emerging arms race in
South America -- in the wake of a Clinton administration decision
to allow U.S. defense contractors to sell fighter jets to Chile.

   After the hearing, Sen. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine, said O'Leary
faced no opposition and predicted his nomination could quickly sail
through the Senate for confirmation.

   On a personal note, Rep. Tom Allen, D-Portland, recalled
battling O'Leary in the courtroom during his days in private
practice, saying those days had prepared O'Leary for the tough
times that lie ahead. ``He has the intelligence for this job, he
has the personal skills,'' Allen said.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0219 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:15 ',
			header: '
A5216 &Cx1f; tad-z
a e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BOOKS-MSKUBE14-COX     06-11 0930
',
			slug: ' BC-BOOKS-MSKUBE14-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;    
 &HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   Any bookseller will tell you that more women than men buy
novels. And the novels they buy, more often than not, are written
by women _ not overwhelmingly so, but by a ratio of perhaps 60-40.
The logic of this would almost suggest that the male novelist
eventually will be crowded out. Marginalized, as the academics say.
If men don't read novels and women mostly read women, you know
who's going to be odd man out.

   Yet when the prestigious awards are announced each year, it's
the men whose names are called _ the Philip Roths, et al. If much
contemporary fiction is written by women and read by women, its
luminaries nonetheless are men.

   This, at any rate, is Francine Prose's contention in an article
(``Scent of a Woman's Ink: Are Women Writers Really Inferior?'') in
the June issue of Harper's magazine. Prose doesn't trouble herself
with much reporting, so someone else must do it for her. In the
past 10 years, the Pulitzer Prize in fiction has gone to six men
and four women (Carol Shields, E. Annie Proulx, Jane Smiley and
Anne Tyler); the National Book Award has gone to eight men and two
women (Proulx and Andrea Barrett).

   But it isn't just the medals. ``Some of us,'' Prose writes,
``can't help noting how comparatively rarely stories by women seem
to appear in the few major magazines that publish fiction, how
rarely fiction by women is reviewed in serious literary journals,
and how rarely work by women dominates short lists and year-end
10-best lists.''

   The ring of truth

   Marshaling evidence is not something Prose does well, but this
has a ring of truth. Call it male intuition, if you will, or just
my unshakable feminism. Most of us, when we think of a ``major''
novelist, imagine a canvas sizable enough for a Norman Mailer or a
William Styron to lay out one of the Big Themes _ Good and Evil,
say _ and gnaw it for 900 pages or so.

   Women novelists? Well, there's Anita Brookner, with her
itty-bitty stories about nothing much. And Tyler, with her nicely
turned out stories about quirky people in midlife. Toni Morrison's
Nobel Prize may speak for itself, but the crowd of major writers
thins rapidly when you cross the gender line.

   One of the reasons for this perception, Prose believes, is that
we cling to the belief that men and women write differently. Men
deal in ideas, women in feelings. Men write about the world, women
about the household. It's been so ever since Jane Austen, whose
novels were perfect gems of parlor politics, but not real politics.

   ``No one but Mailer and a few mad feminist critics,'' Prose
writes, ``believes that males write in one language and females in
another.'' But we attribute some qualities of mind to men, others
to women. Men are tough-minded and analytical, women sentimental
and, well, softheaded.

   And then, to prove how mistaken our perceptions are, Prose gives
us passages from several writers. One is suffused in
self-absorption and slobbering subjectivity; another, clear-eyed
and direct, but detached in its objectivity.

   You know the game. It happens that the whiner is not a woman,
but the late Frederick Exley. And the tough-minded prose is not
that of a man, but Flannery O'Connor.

   The problem with this, of course, is that neither Exley nor
O'Connor is remotely representative of male writers or female
writers. If anything, Prose has unwittingly chosen exceptions to
prove the rule.

   What, then, of the ring of truth? Do we, in fact, take male
novelists more seriously than we do female novelists?

   Plainly we do, whatever the justice of the matter. You can
rattle off the names of a dozen male windbags whose books bring
reviewers to solemn genuflection. At half a dozen, you'd have run
out of major women novelists _ if you got even that far.

   `Lean, muscular' prose

   Draw your own conclusions. Of greater interest to me is how
readily we associate certain qualities with one sex or the other.
In this regard, men and women alike can pity one Robert Silverberg,
who wrote an admiring introduction to ``Warm Worlds and
Otherwise,'' a collection of stories by the science fiction
novelist James Tiptree Jr. The unfortunate Silverberg, himself a
prominent science fiction novelist, imagined Tiptree to be ``a man
of 55, I guess, possibly unmarried, fond of outdoor life, restless
in his everyday existence, a man who has seen much of the world and
understands it well.'' His stories were ``lean, muscular, supple,
relying heavily on dialogue, broken by bursts of stripped down
exposition.''

   Sure sounds like Hemingway to me. Sounded like him to
Silverberg, too. Tiptree had Papa's ``prevailing masculinity _ that
preoccupation with questions of courage, with absolute values, with
the mysteries and passions of life and death as revealed by extreme
physical tests, by pain and suffering and loss.''

   What Tiptree didn't possess was Papa's cojones. How could she?
Tiptree, it turns out, was Raccoona Shelton, writing in the same
closet of pseudonymity as Mary Ann Evans. When Evans published
``Middlemarch'' under the name George Eliot, reviewers also noted
its lean muscularity. Nothing Mary Annish about that prose. It had
a good, solid ``George'' feel to it. Sometimes, alas, the style
isn't the man, after all.

   Email: mskube(at)ajc.com

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    COLUMN: Gender roles color our view of fiction
 &HT;    (EMBARGOED UNTIL JUNE 14: DO NOT USE BEFORE THEN)
 &HT;    By Michael Skube
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   Any bookseller will tell you that more women than men buy
novels. And the novels they buy, more often than not, are written
by women _ not overwhelmingly so, but by a ratio of perhaps 60-40.
The logic of this would almost suggest that the male novelist
eventually will be crowded out. Marginalized, as the academics say.
If men don't read novels and women mostly read women, you know
who's going to be odd man out.

   Yet when the prestigious awards are announced each year, it's
the men whose names are called _ the Philip Roths, et al. If much
contemporary fiction is written by women and read by women, its
luminaries nonetheless are men.

   This, at any rate, is Francine Prose's contention in an article
(``Scent of a Woman's Ink: Are Women Writers Really Inferior?'') in
the June issue of Harper's magazine. Prose doesn't trouble herself
with much reporting, so someone else must do it for her. In the
past 10 years, the Pulitzer Prize in fiction has gone to six men
and four women (Carol Shields, E. Annie Proulx, Jane Smiley and
Anne Tyler); the National Book Award has gone to eight men and two
women (Proulx and Andrea Barrett).

   But it isn't just the medals. ``Some of us,'' Prose writes,
``can't help noting how comparatively rarely stories by women seem
to appear in the few major magazines that publish fiction, how
rarely fiction by women is reviewed in serious literary journals,
and how rarely work by women dominates short lists and year-end
10-best lists.''

   The ring of truth

   Marshaling evidence is not something Prose does well, but this
has a ring of truth. Call it male intuition, if you will, or just
my unshakable feminism. Most of us, when we think of a ``major''
novelist, imagine a canvas sizable enough for a Norman Mailer or a
William Styron to lay out one of the Big Themes _ Good and Evil,
say _ and gnaw it for 900 pages or so.

   Women novelists? Well, there's Anita Brookner, with her
itty-bitty stories about nothing much. And Tyler, with her nicely
turned out stories about quirky people in midlife. Toni Morrison's
Nobel Prize may speak for itself, but the crowd of major writers
thins rapidly when you cross the gender line.

   One of the reasons for this perception, Prose believes, is that
we cling to the belief that men and women write differently. Men
deal in ideas, women in feelings. Men write about the world, women
about the household. It's been so ever since Jane Austen, whose
novels were perfect gems of parlor politics, but not real politics.

   ``No one but Mailer and a few mad feminist critics,'' Prose
writes, ``believes that males write in one language and females in
another.'' But we attribute some qualities of mind to men, others
to women. Men are tough-minded and analytical, women sentimental
and, well, softheaded.

   And then, to prove how mistaken our perceptions are, Prose gives
us passages from several writers. One is suffused in
self-absorption and slobbering subjectivity; another, clear-eyed
and direct, but detached in its objectivity.

   You know the game. It happens that the whiner is not a woman,
but the late Frederick Exley. And the tough-minded prose is not
that of a man, but Flannery O'Connor.

   The problem with this, of course, is that neither Exley nor
O'Connor is remotely representative of male writers or female
writers. If anything, Prose has unwittingly chosen exceptions to
prove the rule.

   What, then, of the ring of truth? Do we, in fact, take male
novelists more seriously than we do female novelists?

   Plainly we do, whatever the justice of the matter. You can
rattle off the names of a dozen male windbags whose books bring
reviewers to solemn genuflection. At half a dozen, you'd have run
out of major women novelists _ if you got even that far.

   `Lean, muscular' prose

   Draw your own conclusions. Of greater interest to me is how
readily we associate certain qualities with one sex or the other.
In this regard, men and women alike can pity one Robert Silverberg,
who wrote an admiring introduction to ``Warm Worlds and
Otherwise,'' a collection of stories by the science fiction
novelist James Tiptree Jr. The unfortunate Silverberg, himself a
prominent science fiction novelist, imagined Tiptree to be ``a man
of 55, I guess, possibly unmarried, fond of outdoor life, restless
in his everyday existence, a man who has seen much of the world and
understands it well.'' His stories were ``lean, muscular, supple,
relying heavily on dialogue, broken by bursts of stripped down
exposition.''

   Sure sounds like Hemingway to me. Sounded like him to
Silverberg, too. Tiptree had Papa's ``prevailing masculinity _ that
preoccupation with questions of courage, with absolute values, with
the mysteries and passions of life and death as revealed by extreme
physical tests, by pain and suffering and loss.''

   What Tiptree didn't possess was Papa's cojones. How could she?
Tiptree, it turns out, was Raccoona Shelton, writing in the same
closet of pseudonymity as Mary Ann Evans. When Evans published
``Middlemarch'' under the name George Eliot, reviewers also noted
its lean muscularity. Nothing Mary Annish about that prose. It had
a good, solid ``George'' feel to it. Sometimes, alas, the style
isn't the man, after all.

   Email: mskube(at)ajc.com

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0220 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:16 ',
			header: '
A5218 &Cx1f; tad-z
a e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MOVIES-MINIREVIEWS13-     06-11 3033
',
			slug: ' BC-MOVIES-MINIREVIEWS13-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   (Reviewer's initials appear at end of review). Grades range from
A to F.

   Almost Heroes PG-13

   A comic version of Lewis and Clark, with Matthew Perry and the
late Chris Farley as mismatched 19th-century explorers. Novel and
giddily silly at first, but simply dopey by the end. Rated PG-13
for brief nudity, strong language and comic violence. 1 hour, 29
minutes. (Newhouse News Service) Grade: C-

   The Apostle PG-13

   Robert Duvall wrote, directed and stars in this slow-moving but
beautifully observed character study about a Pentecostal preacher
who finds, late in the game, that being a holy man and being a good
one aren't always the same thing. The acting is uniformly strong,
with Britain's Miranda Richardson disappearing entirely in the role
of a smalltown Louisiana woman and Farrah Fawcett doing just fine
as the preacher's trophy wife. Rated PG-13 for thematic elements
and a scene of violence. 2 hours, 10 minutes. (SM) Grade: A

   As Good as It Gets PG-13

   Filmmaker James L. Brooks, a savvy humanist with a humorist's
ear, introduces us to three mixed-up New Yorkers trying to work out
their lives. Jack Nicholson is a best-selling writer who's also a
world-class misanthrope and obsessive-compulsive. Greg Kinnear is
his nice-guy gay neighbor whom he regularly baits and Helen Hunt is
the waitress who can handle him ... most of the time. Rated PG-13
for language and brief violence. 2 hours, 18 minutes. (ER) Grade: A

   Bulworth R

   Provocative, funny, and unbalanced _ just like politics.
Director, star and co-writer Warren Beatty plays the titular
senator from California, who breaks down while watching his latest
re-election commercials. Hiring a hit-man with himself as the
target, he returns to campaigning, where his meltdown becomes very
public. Rated R for profanity. 1 hour, 48 minutes. (SM) Grade: B-

   Can't Hardly Wait PG-13

   You won't want to wait ... for the movie to end. This teen
comedy about an end-of-the-school-year all-night party shirks
subtlety whenever a broad stroke will get us there faster. Jennifer
Love Hewitt plays Amanda, the goddess of the just-graduated senior
class. Ethan Embry is the sweet, sensitive guy who, the movie tries
to convince us, deserves to be her boyfriend. Rated PG-13 for
profanity, simulated sex, drug and alcohol use. 1 hour, 38 minutes.
(SM) Grade: C

   City of Angels PG-13

   In this Hollywood-style adaptation of Wim Wenders' great film
``Wings of Desire,'' Nicolas Cage plays an angel who wants to trade
in his wings for an earthly fling with a comely heart surgeon (Meg
Ryan). Directed by by Brad Silberling (``Casper''). (SM) Grade: B-

   Deep Impact PG-13

   The impact here is human, which is pretty gutsy since, going in,
we all know this is about a giant comet hurtling toward Earth.
Director Mimi Leder harks back to 1959's ``On the Beach'' in her
determination to show that worldwide catastrophes can be measured
one human life at a time. Her strong cast is headed by Tea Leoni,
Morgan Freeman, Elijah Wood and Robert Duvall. Rated PG-13 for
violence, language and end-of-the-world jitters. 2 hours, 3
minutes. (ER) Grade: B+

   Everest NR

   Breathtaking. Even filmgoers accustomed to the five-story IMAX
format may gasp at the unearthly scale of ``Everest.'' This
44-minute documentary was filmed at the same time as the 1996 storm
that killed eight mountain climbers, memorialized by Jon Krakauer's
best-selling book ``Into Thin Air.'' Cameraman David Breashears
fills the screen with awesome vistas, but discreetly avoids the
piles of discarded oxygen tanks, human waste and frozen bodies that
now litter the trails of the mountain. This is a film whose cruel
beauty manages to celebrate the spirit of the climbers, while
making you question their sanity. (SM)

   Grade: A

   Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas R

   Too much is never enough for both fabled gonzo journalist,
Hunter S. Thompson, and filmmaker Terry Gilliam. Thus Gilliam's
version of Thompson's 1971 book about his drug-drenched visit to
Vegas has a brilliant first hour and an excessive second one. But
Johnny Depp gives an amazing, uncompromised performance as
Thompson. Rated R for vulgar language, violence and extensive drug
use. 2 hours. (ER) Grade: B

   The Gingerbread Man R

   This tasty thriller pairs mainstream John Grisham with maverick
Robert Altman. The mix works surprisingly well. A cocky attorney
(Kenneth Branagh) helps out a waif-ish waitress and finds he's into
something far murkier than he thought. Branagh is excellent, as is
the supporting cast (Robert Downey, Jr., Robert Duvall), and Altman
captures Savannah with far more flavor and far less fanfare than
Clint Eastwood's ``Midnight'' excursion. Rated R for violence,
language and nudity. 1 hour, 55 minutes. (ER) Grade: A-

   Godzilla PG-13

   He's back. He's big. He's boring. There was probably no way
Hollywood's extravagant update of ``Godzilla'' could live up to its
year-long hype. What's depressing is how far it falls short from
being even solid summer escapism. Bikini Atoll resident Godzilla
comes to nest in Manhattan when it's time to think of family
matters. Matthew Broderick's a biologist on the monster's trail.
Rated PG-13 for sci-fi action/violence. 2 hours, 19 minutes. (SM)
Grade: C-

   The Hanging Garden R

   A dysfunctional family in full bloom is the focus of this
provocative and original film. When a long-absent brother (Chris
Leavins) returns for his sister's (Kerry Fox) wedding, past and
present, realism and surrealism collide with eerie ease and often
darkly comic results. Rated R for profanity and sex. 1 hour, 31
minutes. (ER) Grade: B+

   He Got Game R

   Spike Lee gets it together in this celebration/expose of high
school hoop dreams. Denzel Washington is a jailbird dad who could
earn a reduced sentence if he can convince his hot-prospect son
(Milwaukee Bucks guard Ray Allen) to play for the governor's alma
mater. Not a slam-dunk, but close enough. Rated R for sex, nudity
and language. 2 hours, 10 minutes. (ER) Grade: B+

   Hope Floats PG-13

   Never flies, but never sinks either. Sandra Bullock teams up
with director Forest Whitaker (``Waiting to Exhale'') for this
affecting story of a woman who goes back to her small-town home to
lick her wounds after her husband has an affair. Also stars Harry
Connick Jr. and Gena Rowlands. Rated PG-13 for language and illicit
kissing. 1 hour, 54 minutes. (ER) Grade: B-

   The Horse Whisperer PG-13

   There are far worse ways to pass the time than riding the range
with Robert Redford. In this old-fashioned, emotionally satisfying
story, the director/star plays a cowboy whose magic way with horses
has a healing effect on humans, too. Also stars Kristin Scott
Thomas. Rated PG-13 for violence and sex. 2 hours, 48 minutes. (ER)
Grade: A-

   I Got the Hook-Up R

   This inner-city comedy about two street-corner entrepreneurs,
Black (Master P) and Blue (A.J. Johnson), who come into a cache of
cell phones, is so generic, in both style and story, that it could
be an ``In Living Color'' parody. To its credit, there are hardly
any crossed signals here. ``I Got the Hook-Up'' clearly isn't aimed
at ``The Horse Whisperer'' crowd. Still, it's a pretty shoddy
product by any standards. Rated R for extremely vulgar language,
sexual innuendo, comic violence and extensive female nudity. 1
hour, 33 minutes. (ER) Grade: D+

   The Last Days of Disco R

   A disco movie for anyone who wasn't into disco (and maybe even
for those who were). Master cinematic sociologist Whit Stillman
(``Metropolitan'') looks at the young and the restless and the hip
and the privileged in the early '80s whose social lives revolve
around a Manhattan disco. The fine ensemble cast is headed by Kate
Beckinsale (``Cold Comfort Farm''). Rated R for language, drug use,
female nudity and brief sex. 1 hour, 52 minutes. (ER) Grade: B

   Lost in Space PG-13

   A movie that has all the flash and depth of the latest Nintendo
game. Based on the campy '60s TV show, ``Lost in Space'' throws in
vicious space spiders, genetic monsters, confusing time-travel
elements and heavy doses of family values. There's also Gary Oldman
as the evil Dr. Smith, and ``Friends'' hunk Matt LeBlanc as the
arrogant pilot Major West. Predictably, the movie has an open
ending, suitable for sequels. Rated PG-13 for intense sci-fi
action. 2 hours. (SM) Grade: C+

   The Man in the Iron Mask PG-13

   Swashbuckling escapism at its best. Leonardo DiCaprio plays dual
(and dueling) roles in this adventure based on the Dumas novel
about a masked youth, imprisoned by his twin brother, King Louis
XIV and aided by the Musketeers (Jeremy Irons, John Malkovich,
Gerard Depardieu, Gabriel Byrne). Written and directed by Randall
Wallace (``Braveheart''), the movie isn't just for Leo-maniacs; it
has a fine streak of aging-legend melancholy, too. 2 hours, 7
minutes. (ER) Grade: A-

   The Object of My Affection R

   Based on Stephen McCauley's novel, this comedy-drama is
fashioned as sort of a modern-day Shakespearean romp of romantic
mismatches. Nina (Jennifer Aniston) gets pregnant by her bossy
lover (John Pankow). She begins to think her new roommate George
(Paul Rudd) would make a better father _ he's polite, single, smart
and a babe. He's also gay. Shimmering with charm and sharp
performances, the movie can't quite overcome a central problem.
George and Nina are such bland, nice nudniks, it's hard to invest
in their story. Rated R for strong language and some sexuality. 1
hour, 51 minutes. (SM) Grade: B

   The Odd Couple II PG-13

   Why sully your memories of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau in the
original screen version of Neil Simon's play? This sequel is almost
too dismal to go into, but essentially it's a road trip in which
Felix the fussbudget (Lemmon) and Oscar the slob (Matthau) drive
around California in search of their adult children's wedding.
Rated PG-13 for language and sexual innuendo. 1 hour, 37 minutes.
(ER) Grade: D

   Paulie PG

   A solid, sweet kid flick. Paulie is a wisecracking parrot (voice
by Jay Mohr of ``Picture Perfect'') who is separated from his
beloved owner, a 5-year-old girl named Marie. The bulk of the movie
is Paulie's picaresque adventures as he goes from one owner to
another, trying to find his way back. ``Paulie'' doesn't have the
magic or emotional depth of ``Babe,'' but it's well-crafted and
provides an ending with a lovely twist that can appeal to kids and
adults alike. Rated PG for brief mild language. 1 hour, 27 minutes.
(SM) Grade: B

   A Perfect Murder R

   Not perfect, this ``Dial M for Murder'' remake is still a guilty
pleasure, a slick B-movie jazzed up with great clothes, art
direction and decent plot twists. Michael Douglas plays a business
shark whose boom is going bust, so he attempts to hire his wealthy
wife's lover to kill her. Rated R for language, sex and violence. 1
hour, 47 minutes. (SM) Grade: B

   The Players Club R

   Rapper Ice Cube, making his debut as a writer and director,
steals readily from Spike Lee's 1996 flick ``Girl 6.'' And that's
the best thing he does here. Cube's movie about a strip club
masquerades as the story of a single mother (Lisa Raye) who nobly
struggles to pay her college tuition and feed her young son by
performing at night. Instead we get a cliched view of woman, two
rapes and a catfight between the mother and another dancer. It's
prurient ``ho''-some entertainment. Don't get played by it. Rated R
for strong language, sexual content and violence. 1 hour, 43
minutes. (SM) Grade: D

   Post Coitum NR

   Doomed passion is charted unsparingly in this French film from
Brigitte Rouan. A chic forty-ish woman (Rouan) risks her family and
her career for a heedless affair with a younger man. A raw,
revealing tragicomedy that offers truths as inescapable as stretch
marks. Not Rated but there are steamy sex scenes. In French with
subtitles. 1 hour, 37 minutes. (ER) Grade: B+

   Primary Colors R

   Color it a knock-out. Mike Nichols, who gave a generation a
code-word (``plastics'') now delivers its elegy with this savvy
film about a presidential hopeful and his wife who resemble certain
White House inhabitants. The movie moves from satire to something
far deeper almost effortlessly. The terrific cast is headed by John
Travolta (all gut and twinkle), Emma Thompson, and Kathy Bates. As
Pogo once said, ``We have met the enemy and he is us.'' Rated R for
language and adult situations. 2 hours, 14 minutes. (ER) Grade: A

   Quest for Camelot G

   This action-packed animated feature is a kid-pleaser with enough
humorous asides to keep adults interested, too. During the time of
King Arthur, a plucky girl dreams of becoming a knight and finds
herself responsible for saving Camelot. Gary Oldman, Don Rickles
and Eric Idle are among the more recognizable voices. 1 hour, 28
minutes. (ER) Grade: B+

   Scream 2 R

   Still a scream _ in both the scary and the funny sense. Writer
Kevin Williamson and director Wes Craven, the team that made
``Scream'' the unexpected hit of 1996, takes scary sequels as their
target this time around. Neve Campbell returns as our beleaguered
heroine Sidney, now enrolled in picturesque Windsor College (it's
actually Decatur's Agnes Scott), where a masked killer is prowling
around with a butcher knife. ``Scream 2'' can't recapture the
bracing experience of the first film. But it gets as close as you
could hope for. Rated R for language and violence. 2 hours. (SM)
Grade: A-

   Six Days, Seven Nights PG-13

   Think ``Romancing the Stone'' ... only without the romance or
the adventure. Harrison Ford is a gruff charter pilot, and Anne
Heche is a New York magazine editor. They wind up stranded on an
island near Tahiti _ an abandoned place, except for some pirates.
The pair bicker, bond and kick some pirate butt. Rated PG-13 for
sexual entendres and implied sex. 1 hour, 41 minutes. (SM) Grade:
C+

   Sliding Doors R

   Gets jammed on its own cliches. The gimmick is a pair of what-if
scenarios: what happens if a young woman (Gwyneth Paltrow) makes a
subway train and what happens if she misses it. Paltrow is
appealing, as is John Hannah as the stranger she meets either way.
But essentially, it's a gimmick in search of a story. Make that,
two stories. Rated R for language and mild sex. 1 hour, 35 minutes.
(ER) Grade: C+

   The Spanish Prisoner PG

   More fiendish fun 'n' games with David Mamet. A naive young
inventor (Campbell Scott) is the patsy/hero in a complex confidence
game. Steve Martin is surprisingly good as a well-connected but
mysterious businessman who befriends him. An insubstantial but
deliciously entertaining scam of a movie. Rated PG for language and
mild violence. 1 hour, 52 minutes. (ER) Grade: A-

   Species II R

   The principal difference between this one and ``Species'' is _
well, there really isn't a difference. Michael Madsen is back,
trying to keep Natasha Henstridge (a clone of the character she
played in the first film) from having sex and spreading alien DNA.
The only real fun is in listening to the audience call out the plot
points before the characters find them out. Rated R for language,
sex and gore. 1 hour, 35 minutes. (Newhouse News Service) Grade: C

   Titanic PG-13

   The ship goes down, but the movie stays afloat. Writer-director
James Cameron harnesses Hollywood's latest high-tech tricks to tell
an old-fashioned romance for the gals that doesn't neglect the
guys, either. Kate Winslet plays an upper-crust Philadelphia girl
returning from Europe on the Titanic. Leonardo DiCaprio is a
scrappy artist who has admired her from afar. Rated PG-13 for
disaster-related peril and violence, nudity, sensuality and brief
language. 3 hours, 14 minutes. (SM) Grade: A-

   The Truman Show PG

   Jim Carrey's excellent performance is the centerpiece of this
provocative, thoroughly entertaining social satire about a cheerful
insurance salesman who slowly realizes his entire life has been a
TV show and everyone he knows are actors. Peter Weir directs this
dazzlingly executed concept and the strong cast includes Laura
Linney and Ed Harris. Rated PG for mild language. 1 hour, 44
minutes. (ER) Grade: A

   U.S. Marshals PG-13

   Tommy Lee Jones returns as U.S. Marshal Sam Gerard in this fine
sequel to ``The Fugitive.'' This time, Gerard's on the trail of an
ex-CIA operative implicated in two murders, played by Wesley
Snipes. While this installment lacks some of the emotional
resonance of the original, it offers an exhilaratingly detailed
look into what it takes to be a fed _ the stakeouts, the video
surveillance, the occasional rooftop runs. Through it all, Jones
attacks his role like a pit bull. He makes single-mindedness seem
like a superhuman trait. Rated PG-13 for violence and language. 2
hours, 11 minutes. (DH)

   Grade: B+

   The Wedding Singer PG-13

   A sweet 'n' silly love song of a movie. It's 1985. Adam Sandler
is the titular matrimonial entertainer. Drew Barrymore is a
sweetheart of a waitress. They're clearly Meant For Each Other, but
otherwise engaged. The pre-teen boys who rented ``Happy Gilmore''
by the billions may not be entranced, but the date crowd will
appreciate the shrewd blend of '80s jokes (Deloreans? Billy Idol?)
and romance lite. Rated PG-13 for mild sexual situations and vulgar
language. 1 hour, 36 minutes. (ER) Grade: B

   Woo R

   An uneven but spirited comedy about trying to find true love
amid a meat-market mentality. Jada Pinkett Smith is the title
character, a woman who's been so burned by the doggy behavior of
guys, she approaches her latest blind date (Tommy Davidson) with
the determination to prove his innate canine drive. Rated R for
language, sex and marijuana smoking. 1 hour, 32 minutes. (SM)
Grade: B-

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Mini reviews of current movies
 &HT;    (EMBARGOED UNTIL JUNE 13: DO NOT USE BEFORE THEN)
 &HT;    By Eleanor Ringel, Steve Murray, and Doug Hamilton
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   (Reviewer's initials appear at end of review). Grades range from
A to F.

   Almost Heroes PG-13

   A comic version of Lewis and Clark, with Matthew Perry and the
late Chris Farley as mismatched 19th-century explorers. Novel and
giddily silly at first, but simply dopey by the end. Rated PG-13
for brief nudity, strong language and comic violence. 1 hour, 29
minutes. (Newhouse News Service) Grade: C-

   The Apostle PG-13

   Robert Duvall wrote, directed and stars in this slow-moving but
beautifully observed character study about a Pentecostal preacher
who finds, late in the game, that being a holy man and being a good
one aren't always the same thing. The acting is uniformly strong,
with Britain's Miranda Richardson disappearing entirely in the role
of a smalltown Louisiana woman and Farrah Fawcett doing just fine
as the preacher's trophy wife. Rated PG-13 for thematic elements
and a scene of violence. 2 hours, 10 minutes. (SM) Grade: A

   As Good as It Gets PG-13

   Filmmaker James L. Brooks, a savvy humanist with a humorist's
ear, introduces us to three mixed-up New Yorkers trying to work out
their lives. Jack Nicholson is a best-selling writer who's also a
world-class misanthrope and obsessive-compulsive. Greg Kinnear is
his nice-guy gay neighbor whom he regularly baits and Helen Hunt is
the waitress who can handle him ... most of the time. Rated PG-13
for language and brief violence. 2 hours, 18 minutes. (ER) Grade: A

   Bulworth R

   Provocative, funny, and unbalanced _ just like politics.
Director, star and co-writer Warren Beatty plays the titular
senator from California, who breaks down while watching his latest
re-election commercials. Hiring a hit-man with himself as the
target, he returns to campaigning, where his meltdown becomes very
public. Rated R for profanity. 1 hour, 48 minutes. (SM) Grade: B-

   Can't Hardly Wait PG-13

   You won't want to wait ... for the movie to end. This teen
comedy about an end-of-the-school-year all-night party shirks
subtlety whenever a broad stroke will get us there faster. Jennifer
Love Hewitt plays Amanda, the goddess of the just-graduated senior
class. Ethan Embry is the sweet, sensitive guy who, the movie tries
to convince us, deserves to be her boyfriend. Rated PG-13 for
profanity, simulated sex, drug and alcohol use. 1 hour, 38 minutes.
(SM) Grade: C

   City of Angels PG-13

   In this Hollywood-style adaptation of Wim Wenders' great film
``Wings of Desire,'' Nicolas Cage plays an angel who wants to trade
in his wings for an earthly fling with a comely heart surgeon (Meg
Ryan). Directed by by Brad Silberling (``Casper''). (SM) Grade: B-

   Deep Impact PG-13

   The impact here is human, which is pretty gutsy since, going in,
we all know this is about a giant comet hurtling toward Earth.
Director Mimi Leder harks back to 1959's ``On the Beach'' in her
determination to show that worldwide catastrophes can be measured
one human life at a time. Her strong cast is headed by Tea Leoni,
Morgan Freeman, Elijah Wood and Robert Duvall. Rated PG-13 for
violence, language and end-of-the-world jitters. 2 hours, 3
minutes. (ER) Grade: B+

   Everest NR

   Breathtaking. Even filmgoers accustomed to the five-story IMAX
format may gasp at the unearthly scale of ``Everest.'' This
44-minute documentary was filmed at the same time as the 1996 storm
that killed eight mountain climbers, memorialized by Jon Krakauer's
best-selling book ``Into Thin Air.'' Cameraman David Breashears
fills the screen with awesome vistas, but discreetly avoids the
piles of discarded oxygen tanks, human waste and frozen bodies that
now litter the trails of the mountain. This is a film whose cruel
beauty manages to celebrate the spirit of the climbers, while
making you question their sanity. (SM)

   Grade: A

   Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas R

   Too much is never enough for both fabled gonzo journalist,
Hunter S. Thompson, and filmmaker Terry Gilliam. Thus Gilliam's
version of Thompson's 1971 book about his drug-drenched visit to
Vegas has a brilliant first hour and an excessive second one. But
Johnny Depp gives an amazing, uncompromised performance as
Thompson. Rated R for vulgar language, violence and extensive drug
use. 2 hours. (ER) Grade: B

   The Gingerbread Man R

   This tasty thriller pairs mainstream John Grisham with maverick
Robert Altman. The mix works surprisingly well. A cocky attorney
(Kenneth Branagh) helps out a waif-ish waitress and finds he's into
something far murkier than he thought. Branagh is excellent, as is
the supporting cast (Robert Downey, Jr., Robert Duvall), and Altman
captures Savannah with far more flavor and far less fanfare than
Clint Eastwood's ``Midnight'' excursion. Rated R for violence,
language and nudity. 1 hour, 55 minutes. (ER) Grade: A-

   Godzilla PG-13

   He's back. He's big. He's boring. There was probably no way
Hollywood's extravagant update of ``Godzilla'' could live up to its
year-long hype. What's depressing is how far it falls short from
being even solid summer escapism. Bikini Atoll resident Godzilla
comes to nest in Manhattan when it's time to think of family
matters. Matthew Broderick's a biologist on the monster's trail.
Rated PG-13 for sci-fi action/violence. 2 hours, 19 minutes. (SM)
Grade: C-

   The Hanging Garden R

   A dysfunctional family in full bloom is the focus of this
provocative and original film. When a long-absent brother (Chris
Leavins) returns for his sister's (Kerry Fox) wedding, past and
present, realism and surrealism collide with eerie ease and often
darkly comic results. Rated R for profanity and sex. 1 hour, 31
minutes. (ER) Grade: B+

   He Got Game R

   Spike Lee gets it together in this celebration/expose of high
school hoop dreams. Denzel Washington is a jailbird dad who could
earn a reduced sentence if he can convince his hot-prospect son
(Milwaukee Bucks guard Ray Allen) to play for the governor's alma
mater. Not a slam-dunk, but close enough. Rated R for sex, nudity
and language. 2 hours, 10 minutes. (ER) Grade: B+

   Hope Floats PG-13

   Never flies, but never sinks either. Sandra Bullock teams up
with director Forest Whitaker (``Waiting to Exhale'') for this
affecting story of a woman who goes back to her small-town home to
lick her wounds after her husband has an affair. Also stars Harry
Connick Jr. and Gena Rowlands. Rated PG-13 for language and illicit
kissing. 1 hour, 54 minutes. (ER) Grade: B-

   The Horse Whisperer PG-13

   There are far worse ways to pass the time than riding the range
with Robert Redford. In this old-fashioned, emotionally satisfying
story, the director/star plays a cowboy whose magic way with horses
has a healing effect on humans, too. Also stars Kristin Scott
Thomas. Rated PG-13 for violence and sex. 2 hours, 48 minutes. (ER)
Grade: A-

   I Got the Hook-Up R

   This inner-city comedy about two street-corner entrepreneurs,
Black (Master P) and Blue (A.J. Johnson), who come into a cache of
cell phones, is so generic, in both style and story, that it could
be an ``In Living Color'' parody. To its credit, there are hardly
any crossed signals here. ``I Got the Hook-Up'' clearly isn't aimed
at ``The Horse Whisperer'' crowd. Still, it's a pretty shoddy
product by any standards. Rated R for extremely vulgar language,
sexual innuendo, comic violence and extensive female nudity. 1
hour, 33 minutes. (ER) Grade: D+

   The Last Days of Disco R

   A disco movie for anyone who wasn't into disco (and maybe even
for those who were). Master cinematic sociologist Whit Stillman
(``Metropolitan'') looks at the young and the restless and the hip
and the privileged in the early '80s whose social lives revolve
around a Manhattan disco. The fine ensemble cast is headed by Kate
Beckinsale (``Cold Comfort Farm''). Rated R for language, drug use,
female nudity and brief sex. 1 hour, 52 minutes. (ER) Grade: B

   Lost in Space PG-13

   A movie that has all the flash and depth of the latest Nintendo
game. Based on the campy '60s TV show, ``Lost in Space'' throws in
vicious space spiders, genetic monsters, confusing time-travel
elements and heavy doses of family values. There's also Gary Oldman
as the evil Dr. Smith, and ``Friends'' hunk Matt LeBlanc as the
arrogant pilot Major West. Predictably, the movie has an open
ending, suitable for sequels. Rated PG-13 for intense sci-fi
action. 2 hours. (SM) Grade: C+

   The Man in the Iron Mask PG-13

   Swashbuckling escapism at its best. Leonardo DiCaprio plays dual
(and dueling) roles in this adventure based on the Dumas novel
about a masked youth, imprisoned by his twin brother, King Louis
XIV and aided by the Musketeers (Jeremy Irons, John Malkovich,
Gerard Depardieu, Gabriel Byrne). Written and directed by Randall
Wallace (``Braveheart''), the movie isn't just for Leo-maniacs; it
has a fine streak of aging-legend melancholy, too. 2 hours, 7
minutes. (ER) Grade: A-

   The Object of My Affection R

   Based on Stephen McCauley's novel, this comedy-drama is
fashioned as sort of a modern-day Shakespearean romp of romantic
mismatches. Nina (Jennifer Aniston) gets pregnant by her bossy
lover (John Pankow). She begins to think her new roommate George
(Paul Rudd) would make a better father _ he's polite, single, smart
and a babe. He's also gay. Shimmering with charm and sharp
performances, the movie can't quite overcome a central problem.
George and Nina are such bland, nice nudniks, it's hard to invest
in their story. Rated R for strong language and some sexuality. 1
hour, 51 minutes. (SM) Grade: B

   The Odd Couple II PG-13

   Why sully your memories of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau in the
original screen version of Neil Simon's play? This sequel is almost
too dismal to go into, but essentially it's a road trip in which
Felix the fussbudget (Lemmon) and Oscar the slob (Matthau) drive
around California in search of their adult children's wedding.
Rated PG-13 for language and sexual innuendo. 1 hour, 37 minutes.
(ER) Grade: D

   Paulie PG

   A solid, sweet kid flick. Paulie is a wisecracking parrot (voice
by Jay Mohr of ``Picture Perfect'') who is separated from his
beloved owner, a 5-year-old girl named Marie. The bulk of the movie
is Paulie's picaresque adventures as he goes from one owner to
another, trying to find his way back. ``Paulie'' doesn't have the
magic or emotional depth of ``Babe,'' but it's well-crafted and
provides an ending with a lovely twist that can appeal to kids and
adults alike. Rated PG for brief mild language. 1 hour, 27 minutes.
(SM) Grade: B

   A Perfect Murder R

   Not perfect, this ``Dial M for Murder'' remake is still a guilty
pleasure, a slick B-movie jazzed up with great clothes, art
direction and decent plot twists. Michael Douglas plays a business
shark whose boom is going bust, so he attempts to hire his wealthy
wife's lover to kill her. Rated R for language, sex and violence. 1
hour, 47 minutes. (SM) Grade: B

   The Players Club R

   Rapper Ice Cube, making his debut as a writer and director,
steals readily from Spike Lee's 1996 flick ``Girl 6.'' And that's
the best thing he does here. Cube's movie about a strip club
masquerades as the story of a single mother (Lisa Raye) who nobly
struggles to pay her college tuition and feed her young son by
performing at night. Instead we get a cliched view of woman, two
rapes and a catfight between the mother and another dancer. It's
prurient ``ho''-some entertainment. Don't get played by it. Rated R
for strong language, sexual content and violence. 1 hour, 43
minutes. (SM) Grade: D

   Post Coitum NR

   Doomed passion is charted unsparingly in this French film from
Brigitte Rouan. A chic forty-ish woman (Rouan) risks her family and
her career for a heedless affair with a younger man. A raw,
revealing tragicomedy that offers truths as inescapable as stretch
marks. Not Rated but there are steamy sex scenes. In French with
subtitles. 1 hour, 37 minutes. (ER) Grade: B+

   Primary Colors R

   Color it a knock-out. Mike Nichols, who gave a generation a
code-word (``plastics'') now delivers its elegy with this savvy
film about a presidential hopeful and his wife who resemble certain
White House inhabitants. The movie moves from satire to something
far deeper almost effortlessly. The terrific cast is headed by John
Travolta (all gut and twinkle), Emma Thompson, and Kathy Bates. As
Pogo once said, ``We have met the enemy and he is us.'' Rated R for
language and adult situations. 2 hours, 14 minutes. (ER) Grade: A

   Quest for Camelot G

   This action-packed animated feature is a kid-pleaser with enough
humorous asides to keep adults interested, too. During the time of
King Arthur, a plucky girl dreams of becoming a knight and finds
herself responsible for saving Camelot. Gary Oldman, Don Rickles
and Eric Idle are among the more recognizable voices. 1 hour, 28
minutes. (ER) Grade: B+

   Scream 2 R

   Still a scream _ in both the scary and the funny sense. Writer
Kevin Williamson and director Wes Craven, the team that made
``Scream'' the unexpected hit of 1996, takes scary sequels as their
target this time around. Neve Campbell returns as our beleaguered
heroine Sidney, now enrolled in picturesque Windsor College (it's
actually Decatur's Agnes Scott), where a masked killer is prowling
around with a butcher knife. ``Scream 2'' can't recapture the
bracing experience of the first film. But it gets as close as you
could hope for. Rated R for language and violence. 2 hours. (SM)
Grade: A-

   Six Days, Seven Nights PG-13

   Think ``Romancing the Stone'' ... only without the romance or
the adventure. Harrison Ford is a gruff charter pilot, and Anne
Heche is a New York magazine editor. They wind up stranded on an
island near Tahiti _ an abandoned place, except for some pirates.
The pair bicker, bond and kick some pirate butt. Rated PG-13 for
sexual entendres and implied sex. 1 hour, 41 minutes. (SM) Grade:
C+

   Sliding Doors R

   Gets jammed on its own cliches. The gimmick is a pair of what-if
scenarios: what happens if a young woman (Gwyneth Paltrow) makes a
subway train and what happens if she misses it. Paltrow is
appealing, as is John Hannah as the stranger she meets either way.
But essentially, it's a gimmick in search of a story. Make that,
two stories. Rated R for language and mild sex. 1 hour, 35 minutes.
(ER) Grade: C+

   The Spanish Prisoner PG

   More fiendish fun 'n' games with David Mamet. A naive young
inventor (Campbell Scott) is the patsy/hero in a complex confidence
game. Steve Martin is surprisingly good as a well-connected but
mysterious businessman who befriends him. An insubstantial but
deliciously entertaining scam of a movie. Rated PG for language and
mild violence. 1 hour, 52 minutes. (ER) Grade: A-

   Species II R

   The principal difference between this one and ``Species'' is _
well, there really isn't a difference. Michael Madsen is back,
trying to keep Natasha Henstridge (a clone of the character she
played in the first film) from having sex and spreading alien DNA.
The only real fun is in listening to the audience call out the plot
points before the characters find them out. Rated R for language,
sex and gore. 1 hour, 35 minutes. (Newhouse News Service) Grade: C

   Titanic PG-13

   The ship goes down, but the movie stays afloat. Writer-director
James Cameron harnesses Hollywood's latest high-tech tricks to tell
an old-fashioned romance for the gals that doesn't neglect the
guys, either. Kate Winslet plays an upper-crust Philadelphia girl
returning from Europe on the Titanic. Leonardo DiCaprio is a
scrappy artist who has admired her from afar. Rated PG-13 for
disaster-related peril and violence, nudity, sensuality and brief
language. 3 hours, 14 minutes. (SM) Grade: A-

   The Truman Show PG

   Jim Carrey's excellent performance is the centerpiece of this
provocative, thoroughly entertaining social satire about a cheerful
insurance salesman who slowly realizes his entire life has been a
TV show and everyone he knows are actors. Peter Weir directs this
dazzlingly executed concept and the strong cast includes Laura
Linney and Ed Harris. Rated PG for mild language. 1 hour, 44
minutes. (ER) Grade: A

   U.S. Marshals PG-13

   Tommy Lee Jones returns as U.S. Marshal Sam Gerard in this fine
sequel to ``The Fugitive.'' This time, Gerard's on the trail of an
ex-CIA operative implicated in two murders, played by Wesley
Snipes. While this installment lacks some of the emotional
resonance of the original, it offers an exhilaratingly detailed
look into what it takes to be a fed _ the stakeouts, the video
surveillance, the occasional rooftop runs. Through it all, Jones
attacks his role like a pit bull. He makes single-mindedness seem
like a superhuman trait. Rated PG-13 for violence and language. 2
hours, 11 minutes. (DH)

   Grade: B+

   The Wedding Singer PG-13

   A sweet 'n' silly love song of a movie. It's 1985. Adam Sandler
is the titular matrimonial entertainer. Drew Barrymore is a
sweetheart of a waitress. They're clearly Meant For Each Other, but
otherwise engaged. The pre-teen boys who rented ``Happy Gilmore''
by the billions may not be entranced, but the date crowd will
appreciate the shrewd blend of '80s jokes (Deloreans? Billy Idol?)
and romance lite. Rated PG-13 for mild sexual situations and vulgar
language. 1 hour, 36 minutes. (ER) Grade: B

   Woo R

   An uneven but spirited comedy about trying to find true love
amid a meat-market mentality. Jada Pinkett Smith is the title
character, a woman who's been so burned by the doggy behavior of
guys, she approaches her latest blind date (Tommy Davidson) with
the determination to prove his innate canine drive. Rated R for
language, sex and marijuana smoking. 1 hour, 32 minutes. (SM)
Grade: B-

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0221 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:16 ',
			header: '
A5219 &Cx1f; tad-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MOVIES-SIXDAYS-COX     06-11 0638
',
			slug: ' BC-MOVIES-SIXDAYS-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   You couldn't ask for a better in-flight movie than ``Six Days,
Seven Nights.'' With its tropical scenery and by-the-numbers plot,
it's a perfect time-waster while you're on your way to some summery
shore.

   But if you pay full price at the theater, you may feel burned
... and not by the sun.

   This romantic adventure-comedy stars Harrison Ford as a gruff
charter pilot named Quinn and Anne Heche as a New York magazine
editor named Robin. They wind up stranded on an island near Tahiti
_ which is abandoned, except for some pirates.

   ``Pirates as in `Argh?''' Robin asks. Well, no. More like
pirates as in nameless, dark, well-armed mercenaries, who you doubt
would actually waste their time or firepower on two helpless
castaways. Screenwriter Michael Browning also seems to doubt it;
these pirates come and go with weightless generic villainy. After a
while, you wonder whether they're the ones who looted the script of
any surprises or cool action scenes.

   ``Six Days'' sets up its premise with zip, starting in New York
with Robin's beau, Frank (David Schwimmer), surprising her with a
South Seas vacation. The script sketches in their background with
acerbic economy. ``We fought over a cab,'' he recalls. She: ``I
called you a jerk.''

   Actually, as played with his hangdog charm by Schwimmer, Frank
isn't a jerk. But we know he's doomed to lose Robin to Quinn _ if
only because Heche is in her 20s, Ford in his 50s and Hollywood
likes it that way.

   So after Frank and Robin take Quinn's rattletrap charter plane
to their tropical resort, Robin agrees to fly on to Tahiti for a
photo shoot involving Vendela and Evander Holyfield. (The script
reserves some bright mockery for Robin's professional circles.)

   The plane goes down. Quinn and Robin bicker, bond and kick some
pirate butt. In a nod to political correctness, Heche's character
gets to pitch in and pull her own weight. But she also gets to
watch in girlish admiration as Quinn hacks down trees. The movie
wants to have it both ways: It's an old-time romance but with a
dose of feminism.

   The same goes for the sex issue. Though they kiss in the surf
and ogle each other, Ford and Heche never strike sparks. That's not
because of Heche's much-publicized romance with Ellen DeGeneres,
but because the movie never seems to want to force the issue. This
may look like a remake of the sexually charged ``Swept Away,'' but
it's closer to the let's-play-house spirit of ``Father Goose.''

   Speaking of the latter, Ford is one of the few working actors
who can approach the old-school charm of Cary Grant. But he's also
playing against his own film persona. In the action bits he's
Indiana Jones. And when something new goes amiss, his
I've-got-a-bad-feeling-about-this look takes us back to the ``Star
Wars'' movies. Unfortunately, ``Six Nights'' suffers from these
subliminal reminders of Ford's many better films.

   As for Heche, she's about as good as the material allows her to
be, mixing caustic comic attitude with limber slapstick comedy.

   And here's one thing in favor of ``Six Days, Seven Nights.'' It
tames the feisty, flinty lady editor from New York (Hollywood's
favorite new stereotype) in virtually half the time it takes ``The
Horse Whisperer'' to do the same to Kristin Scott Thomas.

   ``Six Days,

   Seven Nights''

   Grade: C+

   Starring Harrison Ford and Anne Heche. Directed by Ivan Reitman.
Rated PG-13 for sexual remarks and implied sex. 1 hour, 41 minutes.

   The verdict: Think ``Romancing the Stone'' ... only without the
romance or the adventure.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Lost at sea: Ghosts of better movies haunt this tropical island
adventure
 &HT;    By Steve Murray
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   You couldn't ask for a better in-flight movie than ``Six Days,
Seven Nights.'' With its tropical scenery and by-the-numbers plot,
it's a perfect time-waster while you're on your way to some summery
shore.

   But if you pay full price at the theater, you may feel burned
... and not by the sun.

   This romantic adventure-comedy stars Harrison Ford as a gruff
charter pilot named Quinn and Anne Heche as a New York magazine
editor named Robin. They wind up stranded on an island near Tahiti
_ which is abandoned, except for some pirates.

   ``Pirates as in `Argh?''' Robin asks. Well, no. More like
pirates as in nameless, dark, well-armed mercenaries, who you doubt
would actually waste their time or firepower on two helpless
castaways. Screenwriter Michael Browning also seems to doubt it;
these pirates come and go with weightless generic villainy. After a
while, you wonder whether they're the ones who looted the script of
any surprises or cool action scenes.

   ``Six Days'' sets up its premise with zip, starting in New York
with Robin's beau, Frank (David Schwimmer), surprising her with a
South Seas vacation. The script sketches in their background with
acerbic economy. ``We fought over a cab,'' he recalls. She: ``I
called you a jerk.''

   Actually, as played with his hangdog charm by Schwimmer, Frank
isn't a jerk. But we know he's doomed to lose Robin to Quinn _ if
only because Heche is in her 20s, Ford in his 50s and Hollywood
likes it that way.

   So after Frank and Robin take Quinn's rattletrap charter plane
to their tropical resort, Robin agrees to fly on to Tahiti for a
photo shoot involving Vendela and Evander Holyfield. (The script
reserves some bright mockery for Robin's professional circles.)

   The plane goes down. Quinn and Robin bicker, bond and kick some
pirate butt. In a nod to political correctness, Heche's character
gets to pitch in and pull her own weight. But she also gets to
watch in girlish admiration as Quinn hacks down trees. The movie
wants to have it both ways: It's an old-time romance but with a
dose of feminism.

   The same goes for the sex issue. Though they kiss in the surf
and ogle each other, Ford and Heche never strike sparks. That's not
because of Heche's much-publicized romance with Ellen DeGeneres,
but because the movie never seems to want to force the issue. This
may look like a remake of the sexually charged ``Swept Away,'' but
it's closer to the let's-play-house spirit of ``Father Goose.''

   Speaking of the latter, Ford is one of the few working actors
who can approach the old-school charm of Cary Grant. But he's also
playing against his own film persona. In the action bits he's
Indiana Jones. And when something new goes amiss, his
I've-got-a-bad-feeling-about-this look takes us back to the ``Star
Wars'' movies. Unfortunately, ``Six Nights'' suffers from these
subliminal reminders of Ford's many better films.

   As for Heche, she's about as good as the material allows her to
be, mixing caustic comic attitude with limber slapstick comedy.

   And here's one thing in favor of ``Six Days, Seven Nights.'' It
tames the feisty, flinty lady editor from New York (Hollywood's
favorite new stereotype) in virtually half the time it takes ``The
Horse Whisperer'' to do the same to Kristin Scott Thomas.

   ``Six Days,

   Seven Nights''

   Grade: C+

   Starring Harrison Ford and Anne Heche. Directed by Ivan Reitman.
Rated PG-13 for sexual remarks and implied sex. 1 hour, 41 minutes.

   The verdict: Think ``Romancing the Stone'' ... only without the
romance or the adventure.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0222 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:16 ',
			header: '
A5222 &Cx1f; tad-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CSIBLEY-COLUMN12-COX     06-11 0611
',
			slug: ' BC-CSIBLEY-COLUMN12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;    
 &HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   The first thing that struck me on my vacation return to my old
hometown, Mobile, Ala., was the hotel.

   Not the elegant old Battle House, which was the hotel of my
youth, now closed and boarded up. And not any of the new commercial
places, but Malaga Inn, a small hotel made up of two 1850 houses
linked by a lobby and a walled garden.

   I knew it was going to be fine when the desk clerk handed us
brass room keys instead of plastic cards. And the door my brass key
opened was the one-time parlor of one of the houses. Its marble
mantel and tall, tall windows were proof of that. Besides, it had
no closet, but an old-fashioned armoire, which matched the
four-poster beds.

   The cost: $79 for three of us.

   A courtyard with a fountain and flowers led to the little dining
room, where we went for a continental breakfast. Since it is a
downtown hotel only a block from Government Street, we were able to
put up the car and walk. Unfortunately, the walk down Dauphin
Street, once the primary business street, was sad.

   All the stores I remember from my childhood were closed, and
some were boarded up. Those wondrous delights of Saturday
afternoon, the Empire, the Crown, the Queen and the Crescent
theaters, are no more. (The elegant big Saenger, which hit Mobile
about the time talkie movies did, is still there, but looked closed
and lonesome when we peered through an iron gate across its lobby.)

   Bienville Square, which Carl Carmer in his book ``Stars Fell on
Alabama'' called ``this dreaming acre,'' is truly dreaming now.
Beautiful, but empty of people. Even the goldfish are gone from the
big iron fountain, which centers the square and makes the sweet
musical sound we remembered. We sat a moment on one of the big iron
benches under a century-old live oak nd planned the work to be done
in Mobile.

   Because of a book I'm attempting, I wanted to know what it was
like in the 1930s. I remember much, it's true, but not everything.
For instance, when did street cars quit? When was the Bankhead
tunnel finished and in service? What was Mardi Gras really like?
Not what a bedazzled child remembered, but when they started and
when they moved from the waterfront to an auditorium I never knew.
Is the Duffee oak still on Carolina Avenue and was it truly the
biggest, oldest live oak tree in the world? I asked two Mobile
friends some of these questions. But when I asked them where
Washington Square is, and they said, ``Have no idea,'' I thought
I'd better hit the scene myself.

   A book friends at the Atlanta library got for me had a good deal
to say about the restoration of Washington Square. Now I want to
report that it is one of the loveliest spots in an especially
beautiful old town. It is a close-to-town neighborhood, surrounded
by beautiful old houses. They have been handsomely restored and
bear the little shield-shaped insignia with their age _ most often
the pre-Civil War period in the 1800s.

   The Mobile library, dear to my heart since childhood, is one of
the handsomest libraries I've ever visited. But when I asked for
material on Mobile, a gentleman directed me across the street.
There's so much material on Mobile, they had to get a separate
building for it. There we found Ara Smith in charge _ and a
terrific source of help. She seated us at a big table and brought
books and files of newspaper clippings.

   We hated leaving Mobile. My old hometown is something to see.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    COLUMN:Mobile visit jogs memories of a great town
 &HT;    By Celestine Sibley
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   The first thing that struck me on my vacation return to my old
hometown, Mobile, Ala., was the hotel.

   Not the elegant old Battle House, which was the hotel of my
youth, now closed and boarded up. And not any of the new commercial
places, but Malaga Inn, a small hotel made up of two 1850 houses
linked by a lobby and a walled garden.

   I knew it was going to be fine when the desk clerk handed us
brass room keys instead of plastic cards. And the door my brass key
opened was the one-time parlor of one of the houses. Its marble
mantel and tall, tall windows were proof of that. Besides, it had
no closet, but an old-fashioned armoire, which matched the
four-poster beds.

   The cost: $79 for three of us.

   A courtyard with a fountain and flowers led to the little dining
room, where we went for a continental breakfast. Since it is a
downtown hotel only a block from Government Street, we were able to
put up the car and walk. Unfortunately, the walk down Dauphin
Street, once the primary business street, was sad.

   All the stores I remember from my childhood were closed, and
some were boarded up. Those wondrous delights of Saturday
afternoon, the Empire, the Crown, the Queen and the Crescent
theaters, are no more. (The elegant big Saenger, which hit Mobile
about the time talkie movies did, is still there, but looked closed
and lonesome when we peered through an iron gate across its lobby.)

   Bienville Square, which Carl Carmer in his book ``Stars Fell on
Alabama'' called ``this dreaming acre,'' is truly dreaming now.
Beautiful, but empty of people. Even the goldfish are gone from the
big iron fountain, which centers the square and makes the sweet
musical sound we remembered. We sat a moment on one of the big iron
benches under a century-old live oak nd planned the work to be done
in Mobile.

   Because of a book I'm attempting, I wanted to know what it was
like in the 1930s. I remember much, it's true, but not everything.
For instance, when did street cars quit? When was the Bankhead
tunnel finished and in service? What was Mardi Gras really like?
Not what a bedazzled child remembered, but when they started and
when they moved from the waterfront to an auditorium I never knew.
Is the Duffee oak still on Carolina Avenue and was it truly the
biggest, oldest live oak tree in the world? I asked two Mobile
friends some of these questions. But when I asked them where
Washington Square is, and they said, ``Have no idea,'' I thought
I'd better hit the scene myself.

   A book friends at the Atlanta library got for me had a good deal
to say about the restoration of Washington Square. Now I want to
report that it is one of the loveliest spots in an especially
beautiful old town. It is a close-to-town neighborhood, surrounded
by beautiful old houses. They have been handsomely restored and
bear the little shield-shaped insignia with their age _ most often
the pre-Civil War period in the 1800s.

   The Mobile library, dear to my heart since childhood, is one of
the handsomest libraries I've ever visited. But when I asked for
material on Mobile, a gentleman directed me across the street.
There's so much material on Mobile, they had to get a separate
building for it. There we found Ara Smith in charge _ and a
terrific source of help. She seated us at a big table and brought
books and files of newspaper clippings.

   We hated leaving Mobile. My old hometown is something to see.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0223 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:16 ',
			header: '
A5223 &Cx1f; tad-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TV-SURFER12-COX     06-11 0548
',
			slug: ' BC-TV-SURFER12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;    
 &HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   The Castro is more than a pricey San Francisco neighborhood.
It's ground zero for gay culture, the unofficial hometown of a gay
diaspora, a historic battleground turned gay theme park.

   ``Welcome to Oz,'' a newcomer was told when he arrived in the
'70s.

   PBS's Peabody Award-winning ``The Castro'' (check local
listings) is an intriguing, involving 90 minutes that documents the
community as both national symbol and immigrant settlement. With a
deft, unhurried use of interviews and archival footage, the
Castro's history unfolds as a kind of New World arrival by another
group of people looking for a fresh start.

   ``More than a quarter-century ago, gay men and women were
leaving closets all over America for Castro Street,'' a narrator
tells us. ``They came to find a home.''

   What they found first was a close-knit Irish Catholic
neighborhood of Victorian homes then known as Eureka Valley. But
the area declined when longtime residents were lured in the '50s
and '60s by California's booming suburbia. A newfound gay identity
around the country soon seemed to tilt geographically toward Eureka
Valley _ just as the hippie movement had converged on
Haight-Ashbury, right over the hill.

   The neighborhood's makeover was complete when the merchants
association, dominated by gay shop owners, changed its designation
to the Castro, taking the name of the popular movie theater that
for earlier residents served as a kind of baby sitter for their
children.

   ``The Castro'' is produced by KQED as part of a ``hidden
cities'' series on its hometown's neighborhoods. But this
documentary is never so parochial as to lose sight of the larger
picture the Castro represented in outspoken, often outsized
microcosm _ gay liberation, anti-gay violence, gay political power
(footage of the rise and murder of gay City Supervisor Harvey Milk
is stunningly vivid), AIDS.

   Yet it also keeps those larger issues grounded in the personal.
A woman raised in the Castro by her gay father recalls standing on
a corner in the early '80s and seeing no men there between the ages
of 35 and 45 _ it seemed as if they'd all been vanquished by AIDS.
Holy Redeemer Catholic Church, the center of Irish Catholic life
that once shunned gay newcomers, converted its convent into an AIDS
hospice.

   Today the Castro is a boomtown, a hyper-commercial and
tourist-infested district that leaves one longtime resident
wondering, ``How many juice bars and gyms does a neighborhood
really need?''

   But the Castro's commercial overhaul is a kind of testament to
its stature, in the same way that the oversupply of gourmet cookie
shops in Boston's Faneuil Hall or the Colonial-garbed waitresses in
Williamsburg, Va., are a crassly American stamp of historical
significance.

   ``It's still a good neighborhood,'' an aging Irishman observes
of his old home.

   With a smart, intrepid matter-of-factness in presenting what for
much of straight America remains an underground history, ``The
Castro'' shows you why.

   Grade: A

   E-mail: channelsurfer(at)ajc.com

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    `Castro' demonstrates
 &HT;    how gays revived 'hood
 &HT;    By Drew Jubers
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   The Castro is more than a pricey San Francisco neighborhood.
It's ground zero for gay culture, the unofficial hometown of a gay
diaspora, a historic battleground turned gay theme park.

   ``Welcome to Oz,'' a newcomer was told when he arrived in the
'70s.

   PBS's Peabody Award-winning ``The Castro'' (check local
listings) is an intriguing, involving 90 minutes that documents the
community as both national symbol and immigrant settlement. With a
deft, unhurried use of interviews and archival footage, the
Castro's history unfolds as a kind of New World arrival by another
group of people looking for a fresh start.

   ``More than a quarter-century ago, gay men and women were
leaving closets all over America for Castro Street,'' a narrator
tells us. ``They came to find a home.''

   What they found first was a close-knit Irish Catholic
neighborhood of Victorian homes then known as Eureka Valley. But
the area declined when longtime residents were lured in the '50s
and '60s by California's booming suburbia. A newfound gay identity
around the country soon seemed to tilt geographically toward Eureka
Valley _ just as the hippie movement had converged on
Haight-Ashbury, right over the hill.

   The neighborhood's makeover was complete when the merchants
association, dominated by gay shop owners, changed its designation
to the Castro, taking the name of the popular movie theater that
for earlier residents served as a kind of baby sitter for their
children.

   ``The Castro'' is produced by KQED as part of a ``hidden
cities'' series on its hometown's neighborhoods. But this
documentary is never so parochial as to lose sight of the larger
picture the Castro represented in outspoken, often outsized
microcosm _ gay liberation, anti-gay violence, gay political power
(footage of the rise and murder of gay City Supervisor Harvey Milk
is stunningly vivid), AIDS.

   Yet it also keeps those larger issues grounded in the personal.
A woman raised in the Castro by her gay father recalls standing on
a corner in the early '80s and seeing no men there between the ages
of 35 and 45 _ it seemed as if they'd all been vanquished by AIDS.
Holy Redeemer Catholic Church, the center of Irish Catholic life
that once shunned gay newcomers, converted its convent into an AIDS
hospice.

   Today the Castro is a boomtown, a hyper-commercial and
tourist-infested district that leaves one longtime resident
wondering, ``How many juice bars and gyms does a neighborhood
really need?''

   But the Castro's commercial overhaul is a kind of testament to
its stature, in the same way that the oversupply of gourmet cookie
shops in Boston's Faneuil Hall or the Colonial-garbed waitresses in
Williamsburg, Va., are a crassly American stamp of historical
significance.

   ``It's still a good neighborhood,'' an aging Irishman observes
of his old home.

   With a smart, intrepid matter-of-factness in presenting what for
much of straight America remains an underground history, ``The
Castro'' shows you why.

   Grade: A

   E-mail: channelsurfer(at)ajc.com

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0224 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:16 ',
			header: '
A5220 &Cx1f; tad-z
a t &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TRAVEL-TENN-INN-COX     06-11 0438
',
			slug: ' BC-TRAVEL-TENN-INN-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;    
 &HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   Townsend, Tenn.

   Browsing the comment book in each Richmont Inn guest room, you
might start to think they were putting Viagra tablets instead of
chocolates on the pillows at night.

   ``Celebrating our third anniversary here was a perfect way to
rejuvenate and reaffirm our love for one another,'' wrote one Texas
guest.

   Penned a honeymooning Pennsylvania couple, ``The best thing is
to share a place like this together ... not far from heaven.''

   Page for page, Harlequin romances don't have more heavy
breathing.

   Which is especially remarkable given that the Richmont Inn looks
like a barn, at least on the outside. A cantilevered barn, to be
precise _ an unusual type found in East Tennessee in which the
second story overhangs the first. In times past, farmers would
store as many as 4,000 bales of hay upstairs and use the downstairs
for cattle and equipment.

   The barn motif stays outside at the Richmont, a casually elegant
bed-and-breakfast with 10 guest rooms on three floors, many
featuring intimate balconies looking out at Rich Mountain.

   Owners Jim and Susan Hind chose the barn design as a tribute to
their Tennessee roots. ``The Appalachian heritage is a beautiful
thing _ there's so much substance there,'' he says.

   The historic theme continues in the rooms, each decorated to
honor an eminent mountain figure. The Francis Asbury Room, for
instance, is a tribute to the life of a church circuit rider who
tirelessly spread the gospel in the late 1700s and early 1800s,
crossing the Smoky Mountains on horseback some 65 times. Among the
special touches in the room are religious artworks, a 125-year-old
stained-glass church window and crosses delicately cut into the
paper lampshades. The motifs in other rooms include folk art,
botanical, log cabin and country parlor.

   In addition to the gourmet breakfast, served in a dining area
with floor-to-ceiling windows with a mountain view, a stay at the
inn includes candlelight dessert for two every evening.

   Many of the guest rooms have wood-burning fireplaces or spa tubs
for two. Lounging robes are provided, and swoony music, including
Frank Sinatra torch songs, is piped into the rooms until late each
night.

   Heck, who needs Viagra?

   -- Information: The Richmont Inn is at 220 Winterberry Lane,
Townsend, TN 37882. Rooms range from $95 to $145. Call 423-448-6751
or e-mail richmontinn(at)worldnet.att.com.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Honeymooners love Richmont Inn
 &HT;    By Howard Pousner
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   Townsend, Tenn.

   Browsing the comment book in each Richmont Inn guest room, you
might start to think they were putting Viagra tablets instead of
chocolates on the pillows at night.

   ``Celebrating our third anniversary here was a perfect way to
rejuvenate and reaffirm our love for one another,'' wrote one Texas
guest.

   Penned a honeymooning Pennsylvania couple, ``The best thing is
to share a place like this together ... not far from heaven.''

   Page for page, Harlequin romances don't have more heavy
breathing.

   Which is especially remarkable given that the Richmont Inn looks
like a barn, at least on the outside. A cantilevered barn, to be
precise _ an unusual type found in East Tennessee in which the
second story overhangs the first. In times past, farmers would
store as many as 4,000 bales of hay upstairs and use the downstairs
for cattle and equipment.

   The barn motif stays outside at the Richmont, a casually elegant
bed-and-breakfast with 10 guest rooms on three floors, many
featuring intimate balconies looking out at Rich Mountain.

   Owners Jim and Susan Hind chose the barn design as a tribute to
their Tennessee roots. ``The Appalachian heritage is a beautiful
thing _ there's so much substance there,'' he says.

   The historic theme continues in the rooms, each decorated to
honor an eminent mountain figure. The Francis Asbury Room, for
instance, is a tribute to the life of a church circuit rider who
tirelessly spread the gospel in the late 1700s and early 1800s,
crossing the Smoky Mountains on horseback some 65 times. Among the
special touches in the room are religious artworks, a 125-year-old
stained-glass church window and crosses delicately cut into the
paper lampshades. The motifs in other rooms include folk art,
botanical, log cabin and country parlor.

   In addition to the gourmet breakfast, served in a dining area
with floor-to-ceiling windows with a mountain view, a stay at the
inn includes candlelight dessert for two every evening.

   Many of the guest rooms have wood-burning fireplaces or spa tubs
for two. Lounging robes are provided, and swoony music, including
Frank Sinatra torch songs, is piped into the rooms until late each
night.

   Heck, who needs Viagra?

   -- Information: The Richmont Inn is at 220 Winterberry Lane,
Townsend, TN 37882. Rooms range from $95 to $145. Call 423-448-6751
or e-mail richmontinn(at)worldnet.att.com.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0225 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:18 ',
			header: '
A5228 &Cx1f; ttx-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TEST-TEX     06-11 0013
',
			slug: ' BC-TEST-TEX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   EDITORS:

   This is a test from the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   EDITORS:

   This is a test from the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0226 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:19 ',
			header: '
A5229 &Cx1f; ttx-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TEST-TEX     06-11 0013
',
			slug: ' BC-TEST-TEX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   EDITORS:

   This is a test from the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   EDITORS:

   This is a test from the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0227 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:20 ',
			header: '
A5230 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-WORKPLACE-ADVISORY-NY     06-11 0376
',
			slug: ' BC-WORKPLACE-ADVISORY-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   The New York Times News Service calls your attention to the
following articles on jobs and the workplace.

   EARN-CASUAL-DAYS-NYT (Undated) _ As the weather improves, so
does the climate for casual days, those corporately sanctioned
breaches of formal office wear. By Lawrence Van Gelder.

   FLORES-COLUMN-HNS (San Antonio) _ I've never understood why
men's groups have bashed the annual Take Our Daughters To Work Day.
What about boys, the men's advocates say? Spare me. Is it not
enough that women in corporate America hold only 2 percent of
executive positions, yet make up 46 percent of the workforce? Seems
to me, boys are getting along just fine. By Veronica Flores.

   30-HOUR-WEEK-HNS (Undated) _ You don't have to be Don Corleone
to make your employees an offer they can't refuse. Just tell them
that if they can come up with a way to improve productivity, you'll
reduce everybody's work week to 30 hours _ without cutting pay.
Even if they can't come up with a plan, you can bet they'll try. By
Dave Mutphy.

   EMPLOYMENT-QUESTIONS-HNS (San Francisco) _ A security firm that
asked job applicants a series of questions probing their political
beliefs settled a class-action lawsuit for up to $2.1 million,
potentially changing the way employers around the nation screen job
candidates. By Ray Delgado.

   SIGNING-BONUSES-NYT (Undated) _ The sign-on bonus is
proliferating in America as employers, forced to bid for scarce
workers, have shifted some of the bargaining process from wages to
less costly one-time bonus payments. A recruiting tool that had
been limited to upper-level managers, highly skilled technicians
and athletes is spreading to many others. By Louis Uchitelle.

   WORKING-WOMEN-KAN (Undated) _ Why do so many talented women
abandon corporate America? To stay home with children, right?
Wrong. ``The overwhelming majority don't go home,'' said Sheila
Wellington, president of the nonprofit Catalyst. ``They leave
because they can't find a way of balancing work and personal lives;
they go to companies where they think they have a fair chance of
advancement.'' By Jilian Mincer.

   &QL;
',
			body: '

  
ATTN: Managing editors, weekend editors, lifestyle editors,
business editors

',
			paragraphs: '
   The New York Times News Service calls your attention to the
following articles on jobs and the workplace.

   EARN-CASUAL-DAYS-NYT (Undated) _ As the weather improves, so
does the climate for casual days, those corporately sanctioned
breaches of formal office wear. By Lawrence Van Gelder.

   FLORES-COLUMN-HNS (San Antonio) _ I've never understood why
men's groups have bashed the annual Take Our Daughters To Work Day.
What about boys, the men's advocates say? Spare me. Is it not
enough that women in corporate America hold only 2 percent of
executive positions, yet make up 46 percent of the workforce? Seems
to me, boys are getting along just fine. By Veronica Flores.

   30-HOUR-WEEK-HNS (Undated) _ You don't have to be Don Corleone
to make your employees an offer they can't refuse. Just tell them
that if they can come up with a way to improve productivity, you'll
reduce everybody's work week to 30 hours _ without cutting pay.
Even if they can't come up with a plan, you can bet they'll try. By
Dave Mutphy.

   EMPLOYMENT-QUESTIONS-HNS (San Francisco) _ A security firm that
asked job applicants a series of questions probing their political
beliefs settled a class-action lawsuit for up to $2.1 million,
potentially changing the way employers around the nation screen job
candidates. By Ray Delgado.

   SIGNING-BONUSES-NYT (Undated) _ The sign-on bonus is
proliferating in America as employers, forced to bid for scarce
workers, have shifted some of the bargaining process from wages to
less costly one-time bonus payments. A recruiting tool that had
been limited to upper-level managers, highly skilled technicians
and athletes is spreading to many others. By Louis Uchitelle.

   WORKING-WOMEN-KAN (Undated) _ Why do so many talented women
abandon corporate America? To stay home with children, right?
Wrong. ``The overwhelming majority don't go home,'' said Sheila
Wellington, president of the nonprofit Catalyst. ``They leave
because they can't find a way of balancing work and personal lives;
they go to companies where they think they have a fair chance of
advancement.'' By Jilian Mincer.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0228 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:24 ',
			header: '
A5234 &Cx1f; tad-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CLINTON-CHINA-COX- &UR; -5     06-11 1149
',
			slug: ' BC-CLINTON-CHINA-COX- ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Two weeks before his planned trip to China,
President Clinton called on Beijing Thursday to stop jailing
political dissidents, end forced abortions and apologize for the
``terrible killings'' of democracy advocates near Tiananmen Square
nine years ago this month.

   ``China's leaders, as I have repeatedly said, can only move
beyond the events of June 1989 when they recognize the reality that
what the government did was wrong,'' Clinton said. ``Sooner or
later, they must do that.''

   In a rhetorical counter to weeks of criticism of his upcoming
visit to China, Clinton also warned that a nine-year chill in
Sino-American relations will never fully thaw until Beijing
embraces international human rights standards.

   ``Our relationship simply cannot reach its full potential so
long as Chinese people are denied fundamental human rights,'' said
Clinton, who ticked off a list of specific areas where Beijing is
falling short.

   ``Do not arrest people for their political beliefs; release
those who are in jail for that reason,'' Clinton said. ``Renounce
coercive population control practices. Resume your dialogue with
the Dalai Lama (Tibet's exiled spiritual leader). Allow people to
worship when, where and how they choose.''

   Clinton's unusually candid critique of China's human rights
practices appeared aimed at parrying charges from rights advocates
who say his China trip will lend undeserved legitimacy to a regime
sharply at odds with the democratic aspirations of millions of
Chinese.

   The House International Relations Committee's subcommittee on
international operations and human rights has held two hearings on
the subject in the past week.

   One hearing focused on harsh conditions _ including the alleged
sale of body organs of executed prisoners _ in China's prisons,
where hundreds, if not thousands, of political prisoners are being
held, according to the London-based rights group, Amnesty
International.

   Beijing insists that the grisly body organ trade is not endorsed
by the central government.

   On Wednesday, a former Chinese birth control official told the
House panel that pregnant women in rural areas are commonly forced
to have abortions, many of which lead to sterilization, if they
lack official permission to give birth.

   Officially the Chinese government renounces such practices, but
rights activists claim Beijing has done little to combat continuing
abuses.

   Groups have also protested Clinton's upcoming trip on the basis
of China's continuing suppression of religious freedom _ churches
may not operate in China without government permission _ and
Beijing's harsh control over Tibet.

   The best way for the United States to urge change in China,
Clinton said, is to bolster its diplomatic and economic ties to
Beijing.

   ``China will choose its own destiny. But we can influence that
choice by making the right choice ourselves _ working with China
where we can, dealing directly with our differences where we
must,'' said Clinton.

   ``Over time,'' he said, ``the more we bring China into the
world, the more the world will bring freedom to China.''

   Clinton went out of his way at one point to rebut charges that
his China policy is being driven by large corporations, which have
invested $17.3 billion in China to date and have contracted to
invest $23 billion more.

   Clinton said his approach attempts to wed economic integration
with frank diplomacy in an effort to urge change in the world's
oldest continuous civilization.

   ``I do not believe increased commercial dealings alone will
inevitably lead to greater openness and freedom,'' Clinton said.
``We must work to speed history's course.''

   (EDs: Story can end here. Optional add follows.)

   The comments were part of a 30-minute speech focused on the
benefits of strengthening U.S. relations with China, the world's
most populous nation, a rapidly growing economic power and one of
five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.

   Clinton goes to China on June 24 and returns July 3.

   On June 27th, he is to be formally received by Chinese President
Jiang Zemin _ who was hosted at the White House by Clinton last
October _ in front of the Great Hall of the People. The ceremony
will take place adjacent to Tiananmen Square, the seat of a
democracy movement that was brutally crushed by the Chinese army on
June 4, 1989, killing hundreds.

   Rights activists have said Clinton _ the first sitting U.S.
president to visit Beijing since the killings _ would dishonor the
memory of those who died if he goes to the edge of the square to be
feted by the Chinese government and review a formation of People's
Liberation Army troops.

   Clinton said, though, that to shun the official welcoming
ceremony would place symbolism over substance.

   ``We do not ignore the value of symbols. But, in the end, if the
choice is between making a symbolic point and making a real
difference, I choose to make the difference,'' said Clinton. ``And
when it comes to advancing human rights and religious freedom,
dealing directly and speaking honestly to the Chinese is clearly
the best way to make a difference.''

   Clinton reiterated his often-voiced views on China's strategic
significance, saying close cooperation with China will be required
to solve an array of 21st-Century global problems, including
terrorism, organized crime, environmental degradation and the
threat of weapons proliferation.

   Efforts to contain China, on the other hand, will not work,
Clinton said.

   ``Seeking to isolate China will not free one more political
dissident, will not open one more church to those who wish to
worship, will do nothing to encourage China to live by the laws it
has written,'' said Clinton. ``Instead, it will limit our ability
to advance human rights and religious and political freedom.''

   Clinton presented the speech on the politically safe turf of the
National Geographic Society. He took no questions from an invited
crowd heavily laced with Asia experts and China hands who
overwhelmingly agree with Clinton's approach to dealing with
Beijing.

   ``These points will continue to prevail, because the American
people and the American political system, at the end, understand
the essential value of dealing with others, rather than shutting
the door, closing the blinds and putting up a `Do Not Disturb'
sign,'' said one attendee, Robert Kapp, president of the U.S.-China
Business Council, a Washington trade group that represents some 300
American companies with interests in China.

   ``This relationship needs to be intensified,'' said Kapp, ``not
incinerated.''

   &UR; For clients of the New York Times News Service &LR;
',
			body: '

   -575&AMP;ADD 
 &HT;     CLINTON CHIDES CHINESE ON TIANANMEN KILLINGS, DEFENDS TRIP TO
CRITICS
 &HT;     By BOB DEANS 
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Two weeks before his planned trip to China,
President Clinton called on Beijing Thursday to stop jailing
political dissidents, end forced abortions and apologize for the
``terrible killings'' of democracy advocates near Tiananmen Square
nine years ago this month.

   ``China's leaders, as I have repeatedly said, can only move
beyond the events of June 1989 when they recognize the reality that
what the government did was wrong,'' Clinton said. ``Sooner or
later, they must do that.''

   In a rhetorical counter to weeks of criticism of his upcoming
visit to China, Clinton also warned that a nine-year chill in
Sino-American relations will never fully thaw until Beijing
embraces international human rights standards.

   ``Our relationship simply cannot reach its full potential so
long as Chinese people are denied fundamental human rights,'' said
Clinton, who ticked off a list of specific areas where Beijing is
falling short.

   ``Do not arrest people for their political beliefs; release
those who are in jail for that reason,'' Clinton said. ``Renounce
coercive population control practices. Resume your dialogue with
the Dalai Lama (Tibet's exiled spiritual leader). Allow people to
worship when, where and how they choose.''

   Clinton's unusually candid critique of China's human rights
practices appeared aimed at parrying charges from rights advocates
who say his China trip will lend undeserved legitimacy to a regime
sharply at odds with the democratic aspirations of millions of
Chinese.

   The House International Relations Committee's subcommittee on
international operations and human rights has held two hearings on
the subject in the past week.

   One hearing focused on harsh conditions _ including the alleged
sale of body organs of executed prisoners _ in China's prisons,
where hundreds, if not thousands, of political prisoners are being
held, according to the London-based rights group, Amnesty
International.

   Beijing insists that the grisly body organ trade is not endorsed
by the central government.

   On Wednesday, a former Chinese birth control official told the
House panel that pregnant women in rural areas are commonly forced
to have abortions, many of which lead to sterilization, if they
lack official permission to give birth.

   Officially the Chinese government renounces such practices, but
rights activists claim Beijing has done little to combat continuing
abuses.

   Groups have also protested Clinton's upcoming trip on the basis
of China's continuing suppression of religious freedom _ churches
may not operate in China without government permission _ and
Beijing's harsh control over Tibet.

   The best way for the United States to urge change in China,
Clinton said, is to bolster its diplomatic and economic ties to
Beijing.

   ``China will choose its own destiny. But we can influence that
choice by making the right choice ourselves _ working with China
where we can, dealing directly with our differences where we
must,'' said Clinton.

   ``Over time,'' he said, ``the more we bring China into the
world, the more the world will bring freedom to China.''

   Clinton went out of his way at one point to rebut charges that
his China policy is being driven by large corporations, which have
invested $17.3 billion in China to date and have contracted to
invest $23 billion more.

   Clinton said his approach attempts to wed economic integration
with frank diplomacy in an effort to urge change in the world's
oldest continuous civilization.

   ``I do not believe increased commercial dealings alone will
inevitably lead to greater openness and freedom,'' Clinton said.
``We must work to speed history's course.''

   (EDs: Story can end here. Optional add follows.)

   The comments were part of a 30-minute speech focused on the
benefits of strengthening U.S. relations with China, the world's
most populous nation, a rapidly growing economic power and one of
five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.

   Clinton goes to China on June 24 and returns July 3.

   On June 27th, he is to be formally received by Chinese President
Jiang Zemin _ who was hosted at the White House by Clinton last
October _ in front of the Great Hall of the People. The ceremony
will take place adjacent to Tiananmen Square, the seat of a
democracy movement that was brutally crushed by the Chinese army on
June 4, 1989, killing hundreds.

   Rights activists have said Clinton _ the first sitting U.S.
president to visit Beijing since the killings _ would dishonor the
memory of those who died if he goes to the edge of the square to be
feted by the Chinese government and review a formation of People's
Liberation Army troops.

   Clinton said, though, that to shun the official welcoming
ceremony would place symbolism over substance.

   ``We do not ignore the value of symbols. But, in the end, if the
choice is between making a symbolic point and making a real
difference, I choose to make the difference,'' said Clinton. ``And
when it comes to advancing human rights and religious freedom,
dealing directly and speaking honestly to the Chinese is clearly
the best way to make a difference.''

   Clinton reiterated his often-voiced views on China's strategic
significance, saying close cooperation with China will be required
to solve an array of 21st-Century global problems, including
terrorism, organized crime, environmental degradation and the
threat of weapons proliferation.

   Efforts to contain China, on the other hand, will not work,
Clinton said.

   ``Seeking to isolate China will not free one more political
dissident, will not open one more church to those who wish to
worship, will do nothing to encourage China to live by the laws it
has written,'' said Clinton. ``Instead, it will limit our ability
to advance human rights and religious and political freedom.''

   Clinton presented the speech on the politically safe turf of the
National Geographic Society. He took no questions from an invited
crowd heavily laced with Asia experts and China hands who
overwhelmingly agree with Clinton's approach to dealing with
Beijing.

   ``These points will continue to prevail, because the American
people and the American political system, at the end, understand
the essential value of dealing with others, rather than shutting
the door, closing the blinds and putting up a `Do Not Disturb'
sign,'' said one attendee, Robert Kapp, president of the U.S.-China
Business Council, a Washington trade group that represents some 300
American companies with interests in China.

   ``This relationship needs to be intensified,'' said Kapp, ``not
incinerated.''

   &UR; For clients of the New York Times News Service &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0229 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:27 ',
			header: '
A5235 &Cx1f; tad-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CHILD-LABOR-COX &UR;  &UR; SENA     06-11 0362
',
			slug: ' BC-CHILD-LABOR-COX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Senators urged the U.S. Labor Department on
Thursday to aggressively pursue and punish agricultural employers
who illegally employ children.

   John R. Fraser, acting administrator of the department's Wage
and Hour Division, told a Senate Labor subcommittee that child
labor violations had declined from 5,889 in 1990 to 1,141 in 1997,
an indication that more employers are following the law.

   But Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio, the subcommittee's chairman, said
it instead reflected the department's small enforcement budget and
a failure to punish repeat offenders.

   DeWine said he ``sensed a lack of concern'' at the Labor
Department, and asked Fraser to tell the committee how it plans to
work with states and other federal agencies to force farm owners to
follow the rules.

   While some state agencies, such as California's Division of
Labor Standards Enforcement, work closely with police, local
agricultural agencies and communities, DeWine and other committee
members said federal investigators often fail to cooperate with
such agencies.

   Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, said he would introduce a bill that
would establish the same age limits and penalties for agricultural
work that exist in other industries.

   ``It is hard to imagine that we are on the verge of entering the
21 century and we still have young children working'' in the United
States, Harkin said. ``It is the last vestige of slavery in the
world, and child labor is a national shame.''

   Currently, children can work on large farms for several hours a
day once they turn 12. At 14, they can work unlimited hours, and at
16, they can perform hazardous duties and operate heavy machinery.

   In addition to raising fines, Harkin's bill would double the
Labor Department's $7.5 million law enforcement budget, something
Fraser said is needed.

   But Fraser cautioned that many children work because their
family needs the money or has no other place for them to go.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
',
			body: '

     SENATORS URGE CRACKDOWN ON FARM EMPLOYMENT
OF CHILDREN
 &HT;     By SHANNON JOYCE 
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Senators urged the U.S. Labor Department on
Thursday to aggressively pursue and punish agricultural employers
who illegally employ children.

   John R. Fraser, acting administrator of the department's Wage
and Hour Division, told a Senate Labor subcommittee that child
labor violations had declined from 5,889 in 1990 to 1,141 in 1997,
an indication that more employers are following the law.

   But Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio, the subcommittee's chairman, said
it instead reflected the department's small enforcement budget and
a failure to punish repeat offenders.

   DeWine said he ``sensed a lack of concern'' at the Labor
Department, and asked Fraser to tell the committee how it plans to
work with states and other federal agencies to force farm owners to
follow the rules.

   While some state agencies, such as California's Division of
Labor Standards Enforcement, work closely with police, local
agricultural agencies and communities, DeWine and other committee
members said federal investigators often fail to cooperate with
such agencies.

   Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, said he would introduce a bill that
would establish the same age limits and penalties for agricultural
work that exist in other industries.

   ``It is hard to imagine that we are on the verge of entering the
21 century and we still have young children working'' in the United
States, Harkin said. ``It is the last vestige of slavery in the
world, and child labor is a national shame.''

   Currently, children can work on large farms for several hours a
day once they turn 12. At 14, they can work unlimited hours, and at
16, they can perform hazardous duties and operate heavy machinery.

   In addition to raising fines, Harkin's bill would double the
Labor Department's $7.5 million law enforcement budget, something
Fraser said is needed.

   But Fraser cautioned that many children work because their
family needs the money or has no other place for them to go.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0230 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:31 ',
			header: '
A5243 &Cx1f; tad-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-DRUG-TRIALS-COX &UR;  &UR;      06-11 0887
',
			slug: ' BC-DRUG-TRIALS-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;     RESEARCH RISK PROTECTION SEEN IN NEED OF REFORM
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ The system that is supposed to protect persons who
volunteer to use experimental drugs or medical devices in research
projects has become ``brittle'' and has started to crack,
government investigators said Thursday.

   ``The effectiveness of the current system of human-subject
protections is in need of reform,'' George Grob, deputy inspector
general of the Department of Health and Humans Services, told a
House subcommittee. ``We cannot afford to wait any longer to act.''

   Grob told members of the House Government Reform and Oversight
subcommittee on human resources that ``institutional review
boards'' at individual universities and medical centers are so
overworked they have too little time to adequately review the
design of a clinical trial before it begins.

   Since the 1970s, these boards, known as IRBs, have been the
lynchpins of the government's efforts to make sure persons who
participate in drug trials know in advance the risks they will be
taking and are protected from coercion and undue influence.

   Persons who volunteer for the medical experiments often suffer
from terminal illnesses and take the experimental drugs or agree to
use medical devices in the hopes that a breakthrough will save
their lives, say critics of the system.

   Some are paid to participate and in some cases prison inmates
agree to be the subject of the experiments in hopes of earning
``good time'' credit toward early release.

   No one knows exactly how many IRBs have been created _ the
number is probably somewhere between 3,000 and 5,000, witnesses
said. The boards are composed of scientists at the college, medical
school or hospital where research takes place, along with other
individuals, including at least one non-scientist outsider.

   They are the frontline assurance that trials are being ethically
and carefully designed.

   But Grob said that aside from often-cursory reviews of drug
trial proposals, IRBs are not able to carefully evaluate a trial
and monitor its progress.

   He emphasized that a yearlong investigation had not turned up
evidence that widespread harm is being done to human research
subjects in America.

   ``The current system of protections is supported by many
conscientious researchers committed to protecting human subjects,''
he said. ``But I must reiterate our warning signal: The
effectiveness of the current system of human-subject protections is
in need of reform.''

   Representatives of government agencies and scientific
associations whose members conduct research attempted to assure the
subcommittee that the IRB system works but may need to be reformed.
Some members of the House panel were not convinced.

   ``I have great difficulty with the whole thing about reform,''
said Rep. Edolphus Towns, D-N.Y. ``We have so many problems that we
have to destroy the whole thing and started over.''

   Towns denounced a New York City trial that reportedly was
designed to study the effect the drug fenfluramine might have on
inner city children who were seen to be in danger of becoming
``antisocial.''

   Use of the drug in weight-loss therapy recently was prohibited
by the Food and Drug Administration following reports that it
caused heart damage in overweight persons with high blood pressure.

   Towns released memoranda from the IRB responsible for approving
the study that appeared to acknowledge that the New York trial was
restricted to black and Hispanic boys between the ages of six and
ten.

   Although the IRB insisted that this condition be deleted from
the formal design of the experiment, participants already had been
selected, Towns said.

   Dr. Timothy Walsh, co-chair of the IRB at the New York
Psychiatric Institute, one of several institutions involved in the
fenfluramine study, defended it and said it had produced valuable
insights into the development of antisocial behavior and possible
ways to prevent it.

   Dr. Gary Ellis, head of the National Institutes of Health Office
for Protection from Research Risks, testified that while his office
is responsible for overseeing thousands of research projects
financed with federal funds, he has only one fulltime investigator
to follow up on complaints.

   He said the system of IRB oversight works, although it may need
some reforms to keep pace with the growing number of clinical
trials, financed both by the government and drug companies.

   As of Wednesday, the day before the hearing, the draft inspector
general study had the title, ``Institutional Review Boards: A
System in Jeopardy.''

   But when copies were released at the hearing, the title had been
changed to: ``Institutional Review Boards: A Time for Reform.''

   This led to an exchange between Grob and Ellis.

   ``One thing the IRBs are not in any sense of the word is a
system in jeopardy,'' Ellis testified. ``In fact, the inspector
general specifically turned away from the use of the word,
`jeopardy.'''

   Grob said the title of the report was changed because some
persons who had reviewed the report felt it was ``too alarmist.''
He added that, ``we stand by every word in that report.''

   &UR; For use by clients of The New York Times News Service &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '


      &HT;     By JEFF NESMITH 
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ The system that is supposed to protect persons who
volunteer to use experimental drugs or medical devices in research
projects has become ``brittle'' and has started to crack,
government investigators said Thursday.

   ``The effectiveness of the current system of human-subject
protections is in need of reform,'' George Grob, deputy inspector
general of the Department of Health and Humans Services, told a
House subcommittee. ``We cannot afford to wait any longer to act.''

   Grob told members of the House Government Reform and Oversight
subcommittee on human resources that ``institutional review
boards'' at individual universities and medical centers are so
overworked they have too little time to adequately review the
design of a clinical trial before it begins.

   Since the 1970s, these boards, known as IRBs, have been the
lynchpins of the government's efforts to make sure persons who
participate in drug trials know in advance the risks they will be
taking and are protected from coercion and undue influence.

   Persons who volunteer for the medical experiments often suffer
from terminal illnesses and take the experimental drugs or agree to
use medical devices in the hopes that a breakthrough will save
their lives, say critics of the system.

   Some are paid to participate and in some cases prison inmates
agree to be the subject of the experiments in hopes of earning
``good time'' credit toward early release.

   No one knows exactly how many IRBs have been created _ the
number is probably somewhere between 3,000 and 5,000, witnesses
said. The boards are composed of scientists at the college, medical
school or hospital where research takes place, along with other
individuals, including at least one non-scientist outsider.

   They are the frontline assurance that trials are being ethically
and carefully designed.

   But Grob said that aside from often-cursory reviews of drug
trial proposals, IRBs are not able to carefully evaluate a trial
and monitor its progress.

   He emphasized that a yearlong investigation had not turned up
evidence that widespread harm is being done to human research
subjects in America.

   ``The current system of protections is supported by many
conscientious researchers committed to protecting human subjects,''
he said. ``But I must reiterate our warning signal: The
effectiveness of the current system of human-subject protections is
in need of reform.''

   Representatives of government agencies and scientific
associations whose members conduct research attempted to assure the
subcommittee that the IRB system works but may need to be reformed.
Some members of the House panel were not convinced.

   ``I have great difficulty with the whole thing about reform,''
said Rep. Edolphus Towns, D-N.Y. ``We have so many problems that we
have to destroy the whole thing and started over.''

   Towns denounced a New York City trial that reportedly was
designed to study the effect the drug fenfluramine might have on
inner city children who were seen to be in danger of becoming
``antisocial.''

   Use of the drug in weight-loss therapy recently was prohibited
by the Food and Drug Administration following reports that it
caused heart damage in overweight persons with high blood pressure.

   Towns released memoranda from the IRB responsible for approving
the study that appeared to acknowledge that the New York trial was
restricted to black and Hispanic boys between the ages of six and
ten.

   Although the IRB insisted that this condition be deleted from
the formal design of the experiment, participants already had been
selected, Towns said.

   Dr. Timothy Walsh, co-chair of the IRB at the New York
Psychiatric Institute, one of several institutions involved in the
fenfluramine study, defended it and said it had produced valuable
insights into the development of antisocial behavior and possible
ways to prevent it.

   Dr. Gary Ellis, head of the National Institutes of Health Office
for Protection from Research Risks, testified that while his office
is responsible for overseeing thousands of research projects
financed with federal funds, he has only one fulltime investigator
to follow up on complaints.

   He said the system of IRB oversight works, although it may need
some reforms to keep pace with the growing number of clinical
trials, financed both by the government and drug companies.

   As of Wednesday, the day before the hearing, the draft inspector
general study had the title, ``Institutional Review Boards: A
System in Jeopardy.''

   But when copies were released at the hearing, the title had been
changed to: ``Institutional Review Boards: A Time for Reform.''

   This led to an exchange between Grob and Ellis.

   ``One thing the IRBs are not in any sense of the word is a
system in jeopardy,'' Ellis testified. ``In fact, the inspector
general specifically turned away from the use of the word,
`jeopardy.'''

   Grob said the title of the report was changed because some
persons who had reviewed the report felt it was ``too alarmist.''
He added that, ``we stand by every word in that report.''

   &UR; For use by clients of The New York Times News Service &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0231 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:33 ',
			header: '
A5246 &Cx1f; tad-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SPORTSNETBRITE-BJT12-     06-11 0549
',
			slug: ' BC-SPORTSNETBRITE-BJT12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   IT NETWORK NEWS BUDGET

   CATEGORY 6205/64033.5 -- INVESTIGATING THE PRESIDENT...This
category will continue to be updated AS DETAILS BECOME AVAILABLE.

   CATEGORY 6207/64033.7 -- STRIKE AT A GENERAL MOTORS COMPONENT
PLANT.....

   This category will be updated AS INFORMATION BECOMES AVAILABLE.

   NOTE: If you choose not to use IT Networks four-digit number,
please be sure your 4-digit number is calling out to their 5-diGit
holding catdgory. If you need assistance in setting this up, please
call IT NETWORK at (800) 396-9482.

   SPORTSNET PLUS BUDGET:

   This is the most comprehensive sports information service in the
business. For questions and comments, contact Robert Bullock at
(561) 820-2036.

   TODAY'S COVERAGE:

   TENNIS:

   Men's: Tennis International, Gerry Webber Open and Stella Artois

   Championshop- June 8-14.

   Women's: DFS Classic- June 8-14.

   GOLF:

   PGA: Buick Classic, June 11-14.

   LPGA: Oldsmobile Classic, June 11-14.

   World Cup '98 Coverage:

   Thursday, June 11 Italy vs. Chile at Bordeaux, 11:30 a.m.

   Cameroon vs. Austria at Toulouse, 3 p.m.

   BASEBALL:

   Thursday, June 11 N.Y. Yankees at Montreal, 7:05 p.m.

   N.Y. Mets at Florida, 7:05 p.m.

   Anaheim at Arizona, 10:05 p.m.

   Seattle at Oakland, 10:05 p.m.

   TOMORROW`S COVERAGE:

   GOLF:

   Senior PGA: BellSouth Senior Classic, June 12-14.

   World Cup '98 Coverage:

   Friday, June 12 Paraguay vs. Bulgaria at Montpellier, 8:30 a.m.

   Saudi Arabia vs. Denmark at Lens, 11:30 a.m.

   France vs. South Africa at Marseille, 3 p.m.

   BASEBALL:

   AL:

   Friday, June 12 Baltimore at Toronto, 7:05 p.m.

   Tampa Bay at Boston, 7:05 p.m.

   Cleveland at N.Y. Yankees, 7:35 p.m.

   Detroit at Kansas City, 8:05 p.m.

   Chicago White Sox at Minnesota, 8:05 p.m.

   Anaheim at Texas, 8:35 p.m.

   Seattle at Oakland, 10:35 p.m.

   NL:

   Friday, June 12 N.Y. Mets at Florida, 7:05 p.m.

   Milwaukee at Pittsburgh, 7:05 p.m.

   Houston at Cincinnati, 7:05 p.m.

   Chicago Cubs at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m.

   Montreal at Atlanta, 7:40 p.m.

   St. Louis at Arizona, 10:05 p.m.

   Colorado at Los Angeles, 10:05 p.m.

   San Francisco at San Diego, 10:05 p.m.

   OTHER COVERAGE:

   NHL FINALS COVERAGE.

   NBA FINALS COVERAGE.

   MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER: ALL TEAMS UPDATED IN INDIVIDUAL TEAM
CATEGORIES.

   WNBA COVERAGE: June-August

   UPCOMING:

   TENNIS:

   Men's: Heineken Trophy, June 15-21.

   Women's: Direct Line Insurance Championship and Heineken Trophy,
June 15-21

   GOLF:

   PGA: U.S. Open, June 18-21.

   LPGA: Friendly's Classic, June 18-21.

   Senior PGA: Canada Senior Open, June 19-21.

   MOTORSPORTS:

   NASCAR: Miller Lite 400, June 14.

   IRL: New Hampshire International, June 28.

   CART: Budweiser/G.I. Joe's 200, June 21.

   Formula One: British Grand Prix, July 12.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    This SportsNet Plus/Cityline budget for Friday, June 12, 1998 is
for audiotex subscribers only. Codes are listed with the UNIX code
first, followed by the QNIX code. All times are Eastern.
 &HT;    
 &HT;    c.1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   IT NETWORK NEWS BUDGET

   CATEGORY 6205/64033.5 -- INVESTIGATING THE PRESIDENT...This
category will continue to be updated AS DETAILS BECOME AVAILABLE.

   CATEGORY 6207/64033.7 -- STRIKE AT A GENERAL MOTORS COMPONENT
PLANT.....

   This category will be updated AS INFORMATION BECOMES AVAILABLE.

   NOTE: If you choose not to use IT Networks four-digit number,
please be sure your 4-digit number is calling out to their 5-diGit
holding catdgory. If you need assistance in setting this up, please
call IT NETWORK at (800) 396-9482.

   SPORTSNET PLUS BUDGET:

   This is the most comprehensive sports information service in the
business. For questions and comments, contact Robert Bullock at
(561) 820-2036.

   TODAY'S COVERAGE:

   TENNIS:

   Men's: Tennis International, Gerry Webber Open and Stella Artois

   Championshop- June 8-14.

   Women's: DFS Classic- June 8-14.

   GOLF:

   PGA: Buick Classic, June 11-14.

   LPGA: Oldsmobile Classic, June 11-14.

   World Cup '98 Coverage:

   Thursday, June 11 Italy vs. Chile at Bordeaux, 11:30 a.m.

   Cameroon vs. Austria at Toulouse, 3 p.m.

   BASEBALL:

   Thursday, June 11 N.Y. Yankees at Montreal, 7:05 p.m.

   N.Y. Mets at Florida, 7:05 p.m.

   Anaheim at Arizona, 10:05 p.m.

   Seattle at Oakland, 10:05 p.m.

   TOMORROW`S COVERAGE:

   GOLF:

   Senior PGA: BellSouth Senior Classic, June 12-14.

   World Cup '98 Coverage:

   Friday, June 12 Paraguay vs. Bulgaria at Montpellier, 8:30 a.m.

   Saudi Arabia vs. Denmark at Lens, 11:30 a.m.

   France vs. South Africa at Marseille, 3 p.m.

   BASEBALL:

   AL:

   Friday, June 12 Baltimore at Toronto, 7:05 p.m.

   Tampa Bay at Boston, 7:05 p.m.

   Cleveland at N.Y. Yankees, 7:35 p.m.

   Detroit at Kansas City, 8:05 p.m.

   Chicago White Sox at Minnesota, 8:05 p.m.

   Anaheim at Texas, 8:35 p.m.

   Seattle at Oakland, 10:35 p.m.

   NL:

   Friday, June 12 N.Y. Mets at Florida, 7:05 p.m.

   Milwaukee at Pittsburgh, 7:05 p.m.

   Houston at Cincinnati, 7:05 p.m.

   Chicago Cubs at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m.

   Montreal at Atlanta, 7:40 p.m.

   St. Louis at Arizona, 10:05 p.m.

   Colorado at Los Angeles, 10:05 p.m.

   San Francisco at San Diego, 10:05 p.m.

   OTHER COVERAGE:

   NHL FINALS COVERAGE.

   NBA FINALS COVERAGE.

   MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER: ALL TEAMS UPDATED IN INDIVIDUAL TEAM
CATEGORIES.

   WNBA COVERAGE: June-August

   UPCOMING:

   TENNIS:

   Men's: Heineken Trophy, June 15-21.

   Women's: Direct Line Insurance Championship and Heineken Trophy,
June 15-21

   GOLF:

   PGA: U.S. Open, June 18-21.

   LPGA: Friendly's Classic, June 18-21.

   Senior PGA: Canada Senior Open, June 19-21.

   MOTORSPORTS:

   NASCAR: Miller Lite 400, June 14.

   IRL: New Hampshire International, June 28.

   CART: Budweiser/G.I. Joe's 200, June 21.

   Formula One: British Grand Prix, July 12.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0232 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:38 ',
			header: '
A5249 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MEEANS-COLUMN-HNS &LR;      06-11 0810
',
			slug: ' BC-MEEANS-COLUMN-HNS ',
			headline: '
MURDER MOST UGLY 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ If you are a liberal who still thinks capital
punishment is never morally justified, please pay attention to the
shocking Texas murder in which three white men are accused of
dragging a disabled black man behind a truck until his body was
torn to pieces.

   This is the kind of horror that cries out for society's ultimate
punishment. It is important to send a signal that such unprovoked
brutality is not only unacceptable but it will also bring swift and
fatal retribution.

   James Byrd Jr., 49, was beaten, chained to the truck and dragged
along a country road for two miles. His head and arm were found in
a ditch about a mile from his battered torso.

   Fortunately the three suspects, two of whom are allegedly white
supremacists, were speedily arrested, tempering the inevitable
rising racial tensions. Already, black residents of Jasper, the
town where Byrd lived, are demanding the death penalty. Local
prosecutors quickly said they are considering whether the evidence
warrants it.

   A slow and inconclusive investigation by white cops might have
been perceived as racially biased and could have created a
political firestorm.

   The suspects were seen driving with Byrd. At the crime scene
police found a tool inscribed with the name of one of them. That
man has admitted the crime and implicated his buddies.

   Texas, unlike some other states, has never been squeamish about
the death penalty. The state leads the nation in executions, with
more than 150 deaths since capital punishment was reinstated there
in 1982 after the Supreme Court gave the national go-ahead for it
in 1976.

   The high bench said it is constitutionally okay for states to
kill evil-doers who threaten public safety, if the penalty is
appropriate to the crime. Essentially, this standard fits only
those criminals who have taken the life of another without some
mitigating circumstance like self-defense.

   But the Texas suspects have been charged with murder alone, the
maximum sentence for which is life in prison. Under Texas law, the
death penalty can apply only to capital murders _ those committed
in conjunction with certain other felonies, such as robbery.

   The ugly facts here are so gruesome, however, that life behind
bars will never do. Assuming Byrd's heartless killers are found
guilty, taxpayers should not be forced to support them in prison
the rest of their lives. By taking Byrd's life, they have forfeited
the moral right to have society protect them.

   But the case could be elevated to capital murder carrying the
higher penalty if a charge of kidnapping were added. Byrd may have
voluntarily gotten into the truck for a ride but he certainly did
not willingly agree to be tied up and hooked to the truck bumper.

   And federal prosecutors have gotten into the act, examining the
suspects' backgrounds to see if the killing should be classified as
a federal hate crime. Early reports suggest that two of the
suspects identified with the segregationist sentiments of the Ku
Klux Klan and insulted Byrd with racial epithets before beating
him.

   Federal hate crimes constitute a relatively new judicial
category created by Congress. Until now, the category has mostly
been invoked for church-burnings.

   The law is meant to impose harsh punishment for violence
specifically committed out of prejudice against others because of
their race, color, religion or national origin. Those convicted of
hate crimes can be executed if death resulted from their violation
of the victim's civil rights.

   A bill pending in Congress and supported by President Clinton
would extend the law's scope to include violence based on gender,
physical disabilities or sexual orientation. Conservatives,
however, are blocking the measure.

   In addition to hate crimes, the federal death penalty was
extended to dozens of other new or existing offenses by Congress in
1994. Timothy McVeigh, convicted of bombing an Oklahoma City
federal building in which 168 people were killed, is the most
famous felon thus far to be given the federal death penalty. He was
convicted of using a weapon of mass destruction, and among his
victims were eight federal law enforcement agents.

   Most death sentences, however, continue to be carried out under
state law. Thirty-eight states allow the penalty; 463 murderers
have been executed since the Supreme Court ruling.

   Those who oppose the death penalty are convinced that the state
has no more right to take a life than any individual does, no
matter how evil that life. This is muddled thinking. The state has
an overriding interest in preserving law and order and no
obligation to honor the life of those who destroy the life of
others.
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients.)  
 By MARIANNE MEANS  
 c.1998 Hearst Newspapers  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ If you are a liberal who still thinks capital
punishment is never morally justified, please pay attention to the
shocking Texas murder in which three white men are accused of
dragging a disabled black man behind a truck until his body was
torn to pieces.

   This is the kind of horror that cries out for society's ultimate
punishment. It is important to send a signal that such unprovoked
brutality is not only unacceptable but it will also bring swift and
fatal retribution.

   James Byrd Jr., 49, was beaten, chained to the truck and dragged
along a country road for two miles. His head and arm were found in
a ditch about a mile from his battered torso.

   Fortunately the three suspects, two of whom are allegedly white
supremacists, were speedily arrested, tempering the inevitable
rising racial tensions. Already, black residents of Jasper, the
town where Byrd lived, are demanding the death penalty. Local
prosecutors quickly said they are considering whether the evidence
warrants it.

   A slow and inconclusive investigation by white cops might have
been perceived as racially biased and could have created a
political firestorm.

   The suspects were seen driving with Byrd. At the crime scene
police found a tool inscribed with the name of one of them. That
man has admitted the crime and implicated his buddies.

   Texas, unlike some other states, has never been squeamish about
the death penalty. The state leads the nation in executions, with
more than 150 deaths since capital punishment was reinstated there
in 1982 after the Supreme Court gave the national go-ahead for it
in 1976.

   The high bench said it is constitutionally okay for states to
kill evil-doers who threaten public safety, if the penalty is
appropriate to the crime. Essentially, this standard fits only
those criminals who have taken the life of another without some
mitigating circumstance like self-defense.

   But the Texas suspects have been charged with murder alone, the
maximum sentence for which is life in prison. Under Texas law, the
death penalty can apply only to capital murders _ those committed
in conjunction with certain other felonies, such as robbery.

   The ugly facts here are so gruesome, however, that life behind
bars will never do. Assuming Byrd's heartless killers are found
guilty, taxpayers should not be forced to support them in prison
the rest of their lives. By taking Byrd's life, they have forfeited
the moral right to have society protect them.

   But the case could be elevated to capital murder carrying the
higher penalty if a charge of kidnapping were added. Byrd may have
voluntarily gotten into the truck for a ride but he certainly did
not willingly agree to be tied up and hooked to the truck bumper.

   And federal prosecutors have gotten into the act, examining the
suspects' backgrounds to see if the killing should be classified as
a federal hate crime. Early reports suggest that two of the
suspects identified with the segregationist sentiments of the Ku
Klux Klan and insulted Byrd with racial epithets before beating
him.

   Federal hate crimes constitute a relatively new judicial
category created by Congress. Until now, the category has mostly
been invoked for church-burnings.

   The law is meant to impose harsh punishment for violence
specifically committed out of prejudice against others because of
their race, color, religion or national origin. Those convicted of
hate crimes can be executed if death resulted from their violation
of the victim's civil rights.

   A bill pending in Congress and supported by President Clinton
would extend the law's scope to include violence based on gender,
physical disabilities or sexual orientation. Conservatives,
however, are blocking the measure.

   In addition to hate crimes, the federal death penalty was
extended to dozens of other new or existing offenses by Congress in
1994. Timothy McVeigh, convicted of bombing an Oklahoma City
federal building in which 168 people were killed, is the most
famous felon thus far to be given the federal death penalty. He was
convicted of using a weapon of mass destruction, and among his
victims were eight federal law enforcement agents.

   Most death sentences, however, continue to be carried out under
state law. Thirty-eight states allow the penalty; 463 murderers
have been executed since the Supreme Court ruling.

   Those who oppose the death penalty are convinced that the state
has no more right to take a life than any individual does, no
matter how evil that life. This is muddled thinking. The state has
an overriding interest in preserving law and order and no
obligation to honor the life of those who destroy the life of
others.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0233 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:39 ',
			header: '
A5250 &Cx1f; tad-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SPOT-BJT-FRIDAY0612     06-11 1187
',
			slug: ' BC-SPOT-BJT-FRIDAY ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   Eds: Adds: DRUG-TRIALS

   This is the Cox News Service spot news budget for Friday, April
3, 1998. We will update this budget at 6 p.m. ET.

   Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. ET
Monday-Friday. Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.
Monday-Friday.

   If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456. The night news editor, until 10
p.m. ET, is Todd C. Duncan at 404-582-7282.

   With questions about Washington-originated material, please call
our Washington Bureau:

   News editor Art Dalglish, 202-887-8338.

   Foreign editor Rick Christie, 202-887-8316.

   Bureau chief Andy Alexander, 202-887-8334.

   INTERNATIONAL

   CLINTON-CHINA _ WASHINGTON _ Two weeks before he travels to
China, President Clinton said Thursday that Beijing must apologize
``sooner or later'' for its bloody crackdown on democracy advocates
nine years ago in Tiananmen Square. For him to shun an official
welcoming ceremony there two weeks from Saturday, however, would be
placing symbolism over substance in the important U.S.-China
relationship, he said in a major speech on China policy. (Deans,
Cox News Service)

   WASHINGTON

   POLMONEY-HOUSE _ WASHINGTON _ The House resumes debate on
campaign finance reform. (Mollison, Cox News Service).

   TOBACCO _ WASHINGTON _ One day after a Florida jury awarded more
than $1 million damages in smoker's lawsuit against a cigarette
company, the Senate turns Thursday to the question of liability
caps in the comprehensive tobacco bill. (Lipman, Cox News Service).

   AIR-PASSENGERS _ A House subcommittee holds a hearing on the
problem of passenger interference with flight crews and on
legislation to limit carry-on baggage on aircraft to one item.
(Abulhassan, Cox News Service).

   DRUG-TRIALS _ WASHINGTON _ The system that is supposed to
protect persons who volunteer to use experimental drugs or medical
devices for research projects has become ``brittle'' and has
started to crack, government investigators warned Thursday. A
Department of Health and Human Services told a House subcommittee
the committees that are supposed to oversee medical experiments on
human subjects are overworked and have too little time to actually
monitor the research they are charged with overseeing. (Nesmith,
Cox News Service 600).

   CENSUS-GINGRICH _ WASHINGTON _ Arguments are conducted Thursday
in a lawsuit by House Speaker Newt Gingrich seeking to prevent
Census Bureau from using sampling techniques in the 2000 Census.
(Sherman, Cox News Service).

   CHILD-LABOR _ WASHINGTON _ A Senate Labor subcommittee hearing
called by Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio, examines child labor practices
in the United States. (Joyce, Cox News Service).

   WOMAN-PRESIDENT _ WASHINGTON _ Marie Wilson, president of the
White House Project and the Ms. Foundation for Women, holds a
briefing to discuss a new public education campaign ``dedicated to
creating climate in American politics that will allow a qualified
woman to successfully run for the president within the next
decade.'' (Marselas, Cox News Service).

   APLUS _ Convinced that the education bill passed by the Senate
two months ago can't withstand a Democratic filibuster, Sen. Paul
Coverdell (R-Ga.) is negotiating with House and Senate leaders to
have his education savings account proposal tacked on to the
massive IRS reform bill now in conference committee. (Foskett, Cox
News Service)

   BARR _ CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa _ What is Bob Barr up to? A year ago
he was dismissed by many as the new Bob Dornan, but his talk of
impeachment proceedings no longer seems so far fetched. And, in a
surpise move, he will address the First in the Nation Gala in Cedar
Rapids tonight, an event filled with presidential aspirants. (Carr,
Cox News Service).

   NATIONAL

   TEXAS-KILL _ JASPER, Texas _ Trying for profiles of the victim
and the accused. (Mitchell, Lufkin Daily News)

   TEXAS-ARRIVALS _ JASPER, Texas _ We hear that Oprah may do a
show in Jasper, Geraldo may be on his way, Al Gore is coming and
Jesse Jackson is coming back. (Mitchell, Lufkin Daily News)

   BAPTIST _ SALT LAKE CITY _ Latest highlights from Southern
Baptist Convention meeting in Salt Lake City. Several resolutions
are expected to be voted on this morning, before ``Focus on the
Founder'' leader James Dobson speaks to the group. (White, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution)

   ORLANDO _ ORLANDO, Fla. _ Pat Robertson says Orlando should
watch out for floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, etc because it has
welcomed gays to Disney's gay days. What says Orlando? A
talk-of-the-town. (Williams, Atlanta Journal-Constitution)

   GM _ More on the strike. Workers at yet another Flint, Mich.,
plant might walk out tonight, creating more problems for the
world's largest automaker and its suppliers. We're also chasing
word that the Vandalia air bag plant is next in line to shut down
from lack of demand for parts. (Drummond, Dayton Daily News)

   JEWEL-GALAXY _ AUSTIN, Texas _ University of Texas astronomer
Fritz Benedict has been studying Galaxy NGC 4314 since 1980 for
clues to the formation of stars like our Sun. (Stanley, Austin
American-Statesman)

   FAGAN-TICKETSCAM _ MEMPHIS, Tenn. _ Federal agents are trying to
determine whether Stephen Fagan, in his final days as Dr. William
Martin, scammed a Memphis travel agent out of $50,000 worth of
airline tickets. The final purchases came on April 12, four days
before Fagan was arrested and charged with kidnapping his daughters
in Massachusetts 19 years ago. (Holland, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.

   OKEECHOBEE-PROBLEMS _ Egged on by a busload of outraged Treasure
Coast residents, water managers recently endorsed a plan to keep
Lake Okeechobee lower year-round and sharply reduce discharges of
polluted water into the St. Lucie River. But the proposal also
would spill more phosphorus-tainted water into the northern
Everglades. (King, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.

   TXBANS-FIREWORKS _ AUSTIN, Texas _ With the county so dry that
wildfires appear almost inevitable, Travis County Judge Bill
Aleshire declared an emergency outdoor burning ban _ prohibiting
fireworks and other flames that could scorch thousands of acres if
carelessly handled. Aleshire said if it doesn't rain soon and
often, the county commissioners will probably extend the ban
through the July 4 holiday. (Banta, Austin American-Statesman)
MOVED.

   TXAQUIFER-PROTECTED _ AUSTIN _ State environmental officials
want to toughen rules protecting the Edwards Aquifer, the source of
drinking water for 1.75 million people, from polluted runoff. The
proposed rules would affect thousands of acres in Central Texas,
and they've drawn fire from builders, who say the rules are too
strict and would add to the cost of housing. (Rivera, Austin
American-Statesman) MOVED.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 0612 &HT;    The Cox News Service spot news budget for Friday, June 12, 1998.
 &HT;    c.1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   Eds: Adds: DRUG-TRIALS

   This is the Cox News Service spot news budget for Friday, April
3, 1998. We will update this budget at 6 p.m. ET.

   Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. ET
Monday-Friday. Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.
Monday-Friday.

   If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456. The night news editor, until 10
p.m. ET, is Todd C. Duncan at 404-582-7282.

   With questions about Washington-originated material, please call
our Washington Bureau:

   News editor Art Dalglish, 202-887-8338.

   Foreign editor Rick Christie, 202-887-8316.

   Bureau chief Andy Alexander, 202-887-8334.

   INTERNATIONAL

   CLINTON-CHINA _ WASHINGTON _ Two weeks before he travels to
China, President Clinton said Thursday that Beijing must apologize
``sooner or later'' for its bloody crackdown on democracy advocates
nine years ago in Tiananmen Square. For him to shun an official
welcoming ceremony there two weeks from Saturday, however, would be
placing symbolism over substance in the important U.S.-China
relationship, he said in a major speech on China policy. (Deans,
Cox News Service)

   WASHINGTON

   POLMONEY-HOUSE _ WASHINGTON _ The House resumes debate on
campaign finance reform. (Mollison, Cox News Service).

   TOBACCO _ WASHINGTON _ One day after a Florida jury awarded more
than $1 million damages in smoker's lawsuit against a cigarette
company, the Senate turns Thursday to the question of liability
caps in the comprehensive tobacco bill. (Lipman, Cox News Service).

   AIR-PASSENGERS _ A House subcommittee holds a hearing on the
problem of passenger interference with flight crews and on
legislation to limit carry-on baggage on aircraft to one item.
(Abulhassan, Cox News Service).

   DRUG-TRIALS _ WASHINGTON _ The system that is supposed to
protect persons who volunteer to use experimental drugs or medical
devices for research projects has become ``brittle'' and has
started to crack, government investigators warned Thursday. A
Department of Health and Human Services told a House subcommittee
the committees that are supposed to oversee medical experiments on
human subjects are overworked and have too little time to actually
monitor the research they are charged with overseeing. (Nesmith,
Cox News Service 600).

   CENSUS-GINGRICH _ WASHINGTON _ Arguments are conducted Thursday
in a lawsuit by House Speaker Newt Gingrich seeking to prevent
Census Bureau from using sampling techniques in the 2000 Census.
(Sherman, Cox News Service).

   CHILD-LABOR _ WASHINGTON _ A Senate Labor subcommittee hearing
called by Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio, examines child labor practices
in the United States. (Joyce, Cox News Service).

   WOMAN-PRESIDENT _ WASHINGTON _ Marie Wilson, president of the
White House Project and the Ms. Foundation for Women, holds a
briefing to discuss a new public education campaign ``dedicated to
creating climate in American politics that will allow a qualified
woman to successfully run for the president within the next
decade.'' (Marselas, Cox News Service).

   APLUS _ Convinced that the education bill passed by the Senate
two months ago can't withstand a Democratic filibuster, Sen. Paul
Coverdell (R-Ga.) is negotiating with House and Senate leaders to
have his education savings account proposal tacked on to the
massive IRS reform bill now in conference committee. (Foskett, Cox
News Service)

   BARR _ CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa _ What is Bob Barr up to? A year ago
he was dismissed by many as the new Bob Dornan, but his talk of
impeachment proceedings no longer seems so far fetched. And, in a
surpise move, he will address the First in the Nation Gala in Cedar
Rapids tonight, an event filled with presidential aspirants. (Carr,
Cox News Service).

   NATIONAL

   TEXAS-KILL _ JASPER, Texas _ Trying for profiles of the victim
and the accused. (Mitchell, Lufkin Daily News)

   TEXAS-ARRIVALS _ JASPER, Texas _ We hear that Oprah may do a
show in Jasper, Geraldo may be on his way, Al Gore is coming and
Jesse Jackson is coming back. (Mitchell, Lufkin Daily News)

   BAPTIST _ SALT LAKE CITY _ Latest highlights from Southern
Baptist Convention meeting in Salt Lake City. Several resolutions
are expected to be voted on this morning, before ``Focus on the
Founder'' leader James Dobson speaks to the group. (White, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution)

   ORLANDO _ ORLANDO, Fla. _ Pat Robertson says Orlando should
watch out for floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, etc because it has
welcomed gays to Disney's gay days. What says Orlando? A
talk-of-the-town. (Williams, Atlanta Journal-Constitution)

   GM _ More on the strike. Workers at yet another Flint, Mich.,
plant might walk out tonight, creating more problems for the
world's largest automaker and its suppliers. We're also chasing
word that the Vandalia air bag plant is next in line to shut down
from lack of demand for parts. (Drummond, Dayton Daily News)

   JEWEL-GALAXY _ AUSTIN, Texas _ University of Texas astronomer
Fritz Benedict has been studying Galaxy NGC 4314 since 1980 for
clues to the formation of stars like our Sun. (Stanley, Austin
American-Statesman)

   FAGAN-TICKETSCAM _ MEMPHIS, Tenn. _ Federal agents are trying to
determine whether Stephen Fagan, in his final days as Dr. William
Martin, scammed a Memphis travel agent out of $50,000 worth of
airline tickets. The final purchases came on April 12, four days
before Fagan was arrested and charged with kidnapping his daughters
in Massachusetts 19 years ago. (Holland, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.

   OKEECHOBEE-PROBLEMS _ Egged on by a busload of outraged Treasure
Coast residents, water managers recently endorsed a plan to keep
Lake Okeechobee lower year-round and sharply reduce discharges of
polluted water into the St. Lucie River. But the proposal also
would spill more phosphorus-tainted water into the northern
Everglades. (King, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.

   TXBANS-FIREWORKS _ AUSTIN, Texas _ With the county so dry that
wildfires appear almost inevitable, Travis County Judge Bill
Aleshire declared an emergency outdoor burning ban _ prohibiting
fireworks and other flames that could scorch thousands of acres if
carelessly handled. Aleshire said if it doesn't rain soon and
often, the county commissioners will probably extend the ban
through the July 4 holiday. (Banta, Austin American-Statesman)
MOVED.

   TXAQUIFER-PROTECTED _ AUSTIN _ State environmental officials
want to toughen rules protecting the Edwards Aquifer, the source of
drinking water for 1.75 million people, from polluted runoff. The
proposed rules would affect thousands of acres in Central Texas,
and they've drawn fire from builders, who say the rules are too
strict and would add to the cost of housing. (Rivera, Austin
American-Statesman) MOVED.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0234 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:39 ',
			header: '
A5251 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MEANS-COLUMN-HNS &LR;      06-11 0810
',
			slug: ' BC-MEANS-COLUMN-HNS ',
			headline: '
MURDER MOST UGLY 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ If you are a liberal who still thinks capital
punishment is never morally justified, please pay attention to the
shocking Texas murder in which three white men are accused of
dragging a disabled black man behind a truck until his body was
torn to pieces.

   This is the kind of horror that cries out for society's ultimate
punishment. It is important to send a signal that such unprovoked
brutality is not only unacceptable but it will also bring swift and
fatal retribution.

   James Byrd Jr., 49, was beaten, chained to the truck and dragged
along a country road for two miles. His head and arm were found in
a ditch about a mile from his battered torso.

   Fortunately the three suspects, two of whom are allegedly white
supremacists, were speedily arrested, tempering the inevitable
rising racial tensions. Already, black residents of Jasper, the
town where Byrd lived, are demanding the death penalty. Local
prosecutors quickly said they are considering whether the evidence
warrants it.

   A slow and inconclusive investigation by white cops might have
been perceived as racially biased and could have created a
political firestorm.

   The suspects were seen driving with Byrd. At the crime scene
police found a tool inscribed with the name of one of them. That
man has admitted the crime and implicated his buddies.

   Texas, unlike some other states, has never been squeamish about
the death penalty. The state leads the nation in executions, with
more than 150 deaths since capital punishment was reinstated there
in 1982 after the Supreme Court gave the national go-ahead for it
in 1976.

   The high bench said it is constitutionally okay for states to
kill evil-doers who threaten public safety, if the penalty is
appropriate to the crime. Essentially, this standard fits only
those criminals who have taken the life of another without some
mitigating circumstance like self-defense.

   But the Texas suspects have been charged with murder alone, the
maximum sentence for which is life in prison. Under Texas law, the
death penalty can apply only to capital murders _ those committed
in conjunction with certain other felonies, such as robbery.

   The ugly facts here are so gruesome, however, that life behind
bars will never do. Assuming Byrd's heartless killers are found
guilty, taxpayers should not be forced to support them in prison
the rest of their lives. By taking Byrd's life, they have forfeited
the moral right to have society protect them.

   But the case could be elevated to capital murder carrying the
higher penalty if a charge of kidnapping were added. Byrd may have
voluntarily gotten into the truck for a ride but he certainly did
not willingly agree to be tied up and hooked to the truck bumper.

   And federal prosecutors have gotten into the act, examining the
suspects' backgrounds to see if the killing should be classified as
a federal hate crime. Early reports suggest that two of the
suspects identified with the segregationist sentiments of the Ku
Klux Klan and insulted Byrd with racial epithets before beating
him.

   Federal hate crimes constitute a relatively new judicial
category created by Congress. Until now, the category has mostly
been invoked for church-burnings.

   The law is meant to impose harsh punishment for violence
specifically committed out of prejudice against others because of
their race, color, religion or national origin. Those convicted of
hate crimes can be executed if death resulted from their violation
of the victim's civil rights.

   A bill pending in Congress and supported by President Clinton
would extend the law's scope to include violence based on gender,
physical disabilities or sexual orientation. Conservatives,
however, are blocking the measure.

   In addition to hate crimes, the federal death penalty was
extended to dozens of other new or existing offenses by Congress in
1994. Timothy McVeigh, convicted of bombing an Oklahoma City
federal building in which 168 people were killed, is the most
famous felon thus far to be given the federal death penalty. He was
convicted of using a weapon of mass destruction, and among his
victims were eight federal law enforcement agents.

   Most death sentences, however, continue to be carried out under
state law. Thirty-eight states allow the penalty; 463 murderers
have been executed since the Supreme Court ruling.

   Those who oppose the death penalty are convinced that the state
has no more right to take a life than any individual does, no
matter how evil that life. This is muddled thinking. The state has
an overriding interest in preserving law and order and no
obligation to honor the life of those who destroy the life of
others.
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients.)  
 By MARIANNE MEANS  
 c.1998 Hearst Newspapers  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ If you are a liberal who still thinks capital
punishment is never morally justified, please pay attention to the
shocking Texas murder in which three white men are accused of
dragging a disabled black man behind a truck until his body was
torn to pieces.

   This is the kind of horror that cries out for society's ultimate
punishment. It is important to send a signal that such unprovoked
brutality is not only unacceptable but it will also bring swift and
fatal retribution.

   James Byrd Jr., 49, was beaten, chained to the truck and dragged
along a country road for two miles. His head and arm were found in
a ditch about a mile from his battered torso.

   Fortunately the three suspects, two of whom are allegedly white
supremacists, were speedily arrested, tempering the inevitable
rising racial tensions. Already, black residents of Jasper, the
town where Byrd lived, are demanding the death penalty. Local
prosecutors quickly said they are considering whether the evidence
warrants it.

   A slow and inconclusive investigation by white cops might have
been perceived as racially biased and could have created a
political firestorm.

   The suspects were seen driving with Byrd. At the crime scene
police found a tool inscribed with the name of one of them. That
man has admitted the crime and implicated his buddies.

   Texas, unlike some other states, has never been squeamish about
the death penalty. The state leads the nation in executions, with
more than 150 deaths since capital punishment was reinstated there
in 1982 after the Supreme Court gave the national go-ahead for it
in 1976.

   The high bench said it is constitutionally okay for states to
kill evil-doers who threaten public safety, if the penalty is
appropriate to the crime. Essentially, this standard fits only
those criminals who have taken the life of another without some
mitigating circumstance like self-defense.

   But the Texas suspects have been charged with murder alone, the
maximum sentence for which is life in prison. Under Texas law, the
death penalty can apply only to capital murders _ those committed
in conjunction with certain other felonies, such as robbery.

   The ugly facts here are so gruesome, however, that life behind
bars will never do. Assuming Byrd's heartless killers are found
guilty, taxpayers should not be forced to support them in prison
the rest of their lives. By taking Byrd's life, they have forfeited
the moral right to have society protect them.

   But the case could be elevated to capital murder carrying the
higher penalty if a charge of kidnapping were added. Byrd may have
voluntarily gotten into the truck for a ride but he certainly did
not willingly agree to be tied up and hooked to the truck bumper.

   And federal prosecutors have gotten into the act, examining the
suspects' backgrounds to see if the killing should be classified as
a federal hate crime. Early reports suggest that two of the
suspects identified with the segregationist sentiments of the Ku
Klux Klan and insulted Byrd with racial epithets before beating
him.

   Federal hate crimes constitute a relatively new judicial
category created by Congress. Until now, the category has mostly
been invoked for church-burnings.

   The law is meant to impose harsh punishment for violence
specifically committed out of prejudice against others because of
their race, color, religion or national origin. Those convicted of
hate crimes can be executed if death resulted from their violation
of the victim's civil rights.

   A bill pending in Congress and supported by President Clinton
would extend the law's scope to include violence based on gender,
physical disabilities or sexual orientation. Conservatives,
however, are blocking the measure.

   In addition to hate crimes, the federal death penalty was
extended to dozens of other new or existing offenses by Congress in
1994. Timothy McVeigh, convicted of bombing an Oklahoma City
federal building in which 168 people were killed, is the most
famous felon thus far to be given the federal death penalty. He was
convicted of using a weapon of mass destruction, and among his
victims were eight federal law enforcement agents.

   Most death sentences, however, continue to be carried out under
state law. Thirty-eight states allow the penalty; 463 murderers
have been executed since the Supreme Court ruling.

   Those who oppose the death penalty are convinced that the state
has no more right to take a life than any individual does, no
matter how evil that life. This is muddled thinking. The state has
an overriding interest in preserving law and order and no
obligation to honor the life of those who destroy the life of
others.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0235 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:41 ',
			header: '
A5253 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-WEATHER-MAP-NYT &LR;      06-11 0421
',
			slug: ' BC-WEATHER-MAP-NYT ',
			headline: '
WEATHER 
',
			trailer: '
   NATIONAL FORECAST &QL;

   Stormy conditions will prevail from the Great Lakes to the East
Coast on Friday. One large cluster of showers and embedded thunder
ahead of a warm front will pivot through Pennsylvania and into New
England by Friday afternoon. In some locations, moderate to heavy
rainfall of one to 2 inches in less than eight hours will give rise
to local flooding. Some storms may also produce hail, as rising
currents of increasingly warm, humid air are buoyed by a pocket of
chill aloft.

   The sultry air mass behind the warm front will be ripe for
thunderstorm development. As a cold front slips southeastward from
the Great Lakes, steamy air from Michigan to the middle Mississippi
Valley will be forced to rise rapidly. The result will be a line of
vigorous thunderstorms from lower Michigan to Missouri. Some of
these storms will likely turn severe, producing damaging wind
gusts, hail, and isolated tornadoes.

   Clusters of showers and thunderstorms will also develop near the
southern periphery of the subtropical jet stream from the Tennessee
Valley to the central Appalachians. Isolated storms will roam
across south Florida. Otherwise, near record heat will affect parts
of the interior South, as a hot, dry air mass responds to nearly 14
hours of sunshine.

   Cool air near 18,000 feet will remain over much of the West,
sponsoring mountain showers from the southern Sierra to the
northern Rockies. Meanwhile, sunshine and seasonable temperatures
will prevail from the deserts of the Southwest to the western
Plains states, while fog plagues coastal southern California.

   Focus: First Depression

   The National Hurricane Center christened the first tropical
depression of the season Thursday. The system formed off the west
coast of Central America, a noted hotbed for tropical activity.
Maximum sustained winds were estimated at 35 miles per hour.
``Estimated'' is the operative word here because there are no
routine reconnaissance flights into tropical systems in the east
Pacific that could give forecasters more accurate data. Unlike
Atlantic storms, which are probed by aircraft on approach to the
densely populated East Coast, most tropical systems in the east
Pacific do not threaten the U.S.
',
			body: '


  (Editors: The following text accompanies the weather map for
Friday, June 12, sent to computer graphics clients of The New York
Times News Service. For information call: 212-556-4204.) 
(lh) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service  
 

',
			paragraphs: '
   NATIONAL FORECAST &QL;

   Stormy conditions will prevail from the Great Lakes to the East
Coast on Friday. One large cluster of showers and embedded thunder
ahead of a warm front will pivot through Pennsylvania and into New
England by Friday afternoon. In some locations, moderate to heavy
rainfall of one to 2 inches in less than eight hours will give rise
to local flooding. Some storms may also produce hail, as rising
currents of increasingly warm, humid air are buoyed by a pocket of
chill aloft.

   The sultry air mass behind the warm front will be ripe for
thunderstorm development. As a cold front slips southeastward from
the Great Lakes, steamy air from Michigan to the middle Mississippi
Valley will be forced to rise rapidly. The result will be a line of
vigorous thunderstorms from lower Michigan to Missouri. Some of
these storms will likely turn severe, producing damaging wind
gusts, hail, and isolated tornadoes.

   Clusters of showers and thunderstorms will also develop near the
southern periphery of the subtropical jet stream from the Tennessee
Valley to the central Appalachians. Isolated storms will roam
across south Florida. Otherwise, near record heat will affect parts
of the interior South, as a hot, dry air mass responds to nearly 14
hours of sunshine.

   Cool air near 18,000 feet will remain over much of the West,
sponsoring mountain showers from the southern Sierra to the
northern Rockies. Meanwhile, sunshine and seasonable temperatures
will prevail from the deserts of the Southwest to the western
Plains states, while fog plagues coastal southern California.

   Focus: First Depression

   The National Hurricane Center christened the first tropical
depression of the season Thursday. The system formed off the west
coast of Central America, a noted hotbed for tropical activity.
Maximum sustained winds were estimated at 35 miles per hour.
``Estimated'' is the operative word here because there are no
routine reconnaissance flights into tropical systems in the east
Pacific that could give forecasters more accurate data. Unlike
Atlantic storms, which are probed by aircraft on approach to the
densely populated East Coast, most tropical systems in the east
Pacific do not threaten the U.S.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0236 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:42 ',
			header: '
A5254 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ELIMINATE-TOBACCO-BAC     06-11 0039
',
			slug: ' BC-ELIMINATE-TOBACCO-BACKFIRE-HNS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; Editors: &LR;  &QC;

   TOBACCO-BACKFIRE (Washington) will not move tonight on The
Hearst News Service.

   Hearst News Service\Washington.
',
			body: '

  
 Thursday, June 11, 1998 

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; Editors: &LR;  &QC;

   TOBACCO-BACKFIRE (Washington) will not move tonight on The
Hearst News Service.

   Hearst News Service\Washington.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0237 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:42 ',
			header: '
A5255 &Cx1f; tad-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BC-GINGRICH-CENSUS061     06-11 0457
',
			slug: ' BC-BC-GINGRICH-CENSUS0610-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ The Constitution requires census takers to count
the U.S. population ``one by one,'' a lawyer for the House of
Representatives said Thursday at a court hearing on the politically
incendiary issue of how to conduct the 2000 census.

   Census Bureau plans to adjust the population using a statistical
method called sampling should be declared unconstitutional, said
Maureen E. Mahoney, a private attorney who is representing the
House in its lawsuit in U.S. District Court in Washington.

   Census officials ``cannot say the use of sampling is counting;
it's estimating,'' Mahoney said.

   At stake is each state's share of the House's 435 seats and $100
billion a year in federal aid.

   But Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia is leading Republican House
members in a challenge to the Census Bureau, fearing that
Republicans would lose seats in the House if a statistical
adjustment is used to increase the numbers of minorities and people
in other hard-to-count groups. These groups tend to be Democratic
voters.

   A panel of three federal judges also heard arguments from the
Census Bureau and a coalition of cities, counties and the state of
New Mexico that support sampling. ``Accuracy matters,'' Thomas W.
Millet, a Justice Department lawyer, argued on behalf of the Census
Bureau. ``It's not just method.''

   The 1990 Census failed to count an estimated 8.4 million people,
a disproportionate number of them minorities. It also counted 4.4
million people twice.

   Appeals Court Judge Douglas Ginsburg and District Court Judges
Royce Lamberth and Ricardo Urbina did not indicate when they would
issue a decision. The case is almost certain to wind up before the
Supreme Court, probably before the end of the year.

   With President Clinton's strong support, the Census Bureau is
planning to use a traditional mail campaign and door-to-door visits
to count at least 90 percent of the population. The National
Academy of Sciences, the former director of the Census Bureau in
the Bush administration and Bush Justice Department officials have
endorsed both the constitutionality and feasibility of using
sampling to help account for the rest of the population.

   Millet acknowledged sampling would not produce a completely
accurate count, but said it would be a big improvement over the
1990 Census.

   ``This process is so massive that it can never be perfect,''
Millet said.

   (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service)

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    FEDERAL COURT HEARS SUIT CHALLENGING CENSUS PLANS TO USE
SAMPLING
 &HT;    Not for Atlanta
 &HT;    By MARK SHERMAN
 &HT;    c.1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ The Constitution requires census takers to count
the U.S. population ``one by one,'' a lawyer for the House of
Representatives said Thursday at a court hearing on the politically
incendiary issue of how to conduct the 2000 census.

   Census Bureau plans to adjust the population using a statistical
method called sampling should be declared unconstitutional, said
Maureen E. Mahoney, a private attorney who is representing the
House in its lawsuit in U.S. District Court in Washington.

   Census officials ``cannot say the use of sampling is counting;
it's estimating,'' Mahoney said.

   At stake is each state's share of the House's 435 seats and $100
billion a year in federal aid.

   But Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia is leading Republican House
members in a challenge to the Census Bureau, fearing that
Republicans would lose seats in the House if a statistical
adjustment is used to increase the numbers of minorities and people
in other hard-to-count groups. These groups tend to be Democratic
voters.

   A panel of three federal judges also heard arguments from the
Census Bureau and a coalition of cities, counties and the state of
New Mexico that support sampling. ``Accuracy matters,'' Thomas W.
Millet, a Justice Department lawyer, argued on behalf of the Census
Bureau. ``It's not just method.''

   The 1990 Census failed to count an estimated 8.4 million people,
a disproportionate number of them minorities. It also counted 4.4
million people twice.

   Appeals Court Judge Douglas Ginsburg and District Court Judges
Royce Lamberth and Ricardo Urbina did not indicate when they would
issue a decision. The case is almost certain to wind up before the
Supreme Court, probably before the end of the year.

   With President Clinton's strong support, the Census Bureau is
planning to use a traditional mail campaign and door-to-door visits
to count at least 90 percent of the population. The National
Academy of Sciences, the former director of the Census Bureau in
the Bush administration and Bush Justice Department officials have
endorsed both the constitutionality and feasibility of using
sampling to help account for the rest of the population.

   Millet acknowledged sampling would not produce a completely
accurate count, but said it would be a big improvement over the
1990 Census.

   ``This process is so massive that it can never be perfect,''
Millet said.

   (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service)

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0238 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:42 ',
			header: '
A5256 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ELIMINATE-TOBACCO-BAC     06-11 0039
',
			slug: ' BC-ELIMINATE-TOBACCO-BACKFIRE-HNS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; Editors: &LR;  &QC;

   TOBACCO-BACKFIRE (Washington) will not move tonight on The
Hearst News Service.

   Hearst News Service\Washington.
',
			body: '

  
 Thursday, June 11, 1998 

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; Editors: &LR;  &QC;

   TOBACCO-BACKFIRE (Washington) will not move tonight on The
Hearst News Service.

   Hearst News Service\Washington.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0239 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:43 ',
			header: '
A5257 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CELEBRITIES-ADVISORY-     06-11 0849
',
			slug: ' BC-CELEBRITIES-ADVISORY-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   The New York Times News Service calls your attention to the
following celebrity profiles and features.

   The articles, which moved within the last week, are from The New
York Times (NYT), The Boston Globe (BOS), Los Angeles Daily News
(LADN), Hearst Newspapers (HNS), Fort Worth Star-Telegram (TEX) and
The Arizona Republic (AZR).

   Photos, where indicated, have been sent to NYT photo clients.
Nonsubscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204.

   For retransmissions of these stories, please call 212-556-1927.

   &UR; GENERAL &LR;

   &QL;

   LEWINSKY-REVIEW-NYT _ Monica Lewinsky has her new legal dream
team. She will also surely have bigger bills to go along with the
bigger names now defending her. By Jill Abramson.

   GINGRICH-REVIEW-NYT _ Newt Gingrich's brand of eclectic,
activist conservatism fits no distinct Republican mold. Moderates
shy from his confrontational tactics, while House conservatives
tried to oust him last year as too accommodationist. Party
pragmatists consider him too unpredictable and undisciplined. By
Alison Mitchell.

   LAST-MILKMAN-COX _ He is one of a dying breed. Yet Rick Lee will
not go gentle into that good night. His job won't let him. When
you're one of the last milkmen in Atlanta, those days start early,
around 2:30 a.m. For 27 years Rick Lee has been rising at that hour
to thank his luck, curse his luck, and deliver milk, eggs, butter,
cottage cheese and orange juice.

   AGENT-PROFILE-NYT (New York) _ Flora Roberts is one of the last
of the red-hot play agents, a fiercely independent woman who has
gone her own way in a world dominated by corporate agencies. In a
career of almost 50 years, she has been a formidable talent
spotter. She is artful in her choice of clients _ mostly writers,
like Stephen Sondheim, Tina Howe and Alfred Uhry _ and
sharp-sighted in her assessments of their strengths. She is a kind
of dramaturge in the guise of an agent. By Mel Gussow.

   &UR; MOVIES &LR;

   KEN-LOACH-MOVIES (London) _ Surprisingly, perhaps, given his
distaste for the prevailing social order, Ken Loach was never an
angry young man. Shy and soft-spoken, he was almost 30 by the time
he set off down the path that three decades later would earn him
recognition in Europe as the dean of leftist movie makers. By Alan
Riding.

   ALY-SHEEDY-MOVIES (Undated) _ To Americans, Aly Sheedy is still
the shining conscience of the Brat Pack of the 1980s, the sprightly
valentine at the center of classic films about the transition to
adulthood like ``The Breakfast Club'' and ``St. Elmo's Fire,'' the
touchstone for a million awkward adolescences. She is the farthest
thing imaginable from a middle-aged lesbian drug addict
photographer, which is what she plays in ``High Art.'' By Margy
Rochlin.

   HARRISONFORD-COX _ Is it any wonder then that his latest role in
the upcoming romantic comedy ``Six Days, Seven Nights'' _ boozy,
beach bumming, barely-in-business pilot Quinn Harris _ is lighter
than anything Ford has played of late? ``I wanted to do something
that was not a suit-and-tie job,'' Ford explained. ``Something
where I didn't have to go around containing the tension all the
time.''

   &UR; BOOKS  &LR;

   BAKER-INTERVIEW-NYT (Undated) _ Nicholson Baker talks about his
new novel, `The Everlasting Story of Nory'. By Sarah Lyall.

   LAMOUR-WESTERNS (Undated) _ Arts in America: Ten years after
Louis L'Amour's death, his Westerns are still big sellers. By Bruce
Weber.

   &UR; MUSIC &LR;

   COLTRANE-JAZZ (New York) _ It is a perfect indicator of jazz's
restricted place in American society that Ravi Coltrane _ who is
the son of John Coltrane _was nobody special as a boy growing up in
Woodland Hills, a suburb of Los Angeles, far away from the bohemian
world. By Ben Ratliff.

   MACHO-MUSIC (Undated) _ One of the fundamental myths of rock was
that it was essentially a man's game, a macho sport that knocked a
generation of unctuous crooning mama's boys out of the batter's box
of popular culture and allowed ``real'' men to step to the
pop-music plate. Girls who sought membership in this boys' club had
better be butch. But even performers like Patti Smith and Joan
Jett, who affected male bravado, were never fully accepted into the
highest reaches of rock's pantheon. The reality behind that myth,
of course, is something quite different. By Stephen Holden.

   CONTEMPORARY-CW-WOMEN-SPI (Undated) It's Madonna meets Patsy
Cline. With the success of performers like Shania Twain, country
music has watched its women evolve from folksy ol' gals like
Loretta Lynn and Kitty Wells to big city, sexy, pop-crossover
dynamos like Twain, Deana Carter and Mindy McCready, who sing tough
and wear navel rings and crop tops in MTV-style videos. Though
their predecessors blazed a path for them, these contemporary
country-western women are assertive in an in-your-face, sexually
upfront '90s way. We look at this new era of ``country diva.'' By
Teresa Talerico.

   &QL;
',
			body: '

  
ATTN: Managing editors, entertainment editors, weekend editors:

',
			paragraphs: '
   The New York Times News Service calls your attention to the
following celebrity profiles and features.

   The articles, which moved within the last week, are from The New
York Times (NYT), The Boston Globe (BOS), Los Angeles Daily News
(LADN), Hearst Newspapers (HNS), Fort Worth Star-Telegram (TEX) and
The Arizona Republic (AZR).

   Photos, where indicated, have been sent to NYT photo clients.
Nonsubscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204.

   For retransmissions of these stories, please call 212-556-1927.

   &UR; GENERAL &LR;

   &QL;

   LEWINSKY-REVIEW-NYT _ Monica Lewinsky has her new legal dream
team. She will also surely have bigger bills to go along with the
bigger names now defending her. By Jill Abramson.

   GINGRICH-REVIEW-NYT _ Newt Gingrich's brand of eclectic,
activist conservatism fits no distinct Republican mold. Moderates
shy from his confrontational tactics, while House conservatives
tried to oust him last year as too accommodationist. Party
pragmatists consider him too unpredictable and undisciplined. By
Alison Mitchell.

   LAST-MILKMAN-COX _ He is one of a dying breed. Yet Rick Lee will
not go gentle into that good night. His job won't let him. When
you're one of the last milkmen in Atlanta, those days start early,
around 2:30 a.m. For 27 years Rick Lee has been rising at that hour
to thank his luck, curse his luck, and deliver milk, eggs, butter,
cottage cheese and orange juice.

   AGENT-PROFILE-NYT (New York) _ Flora Roberts is one of the last
of the red-hot play agents, a fiercely independent woman who has
gone her own way in a world dominated by corporate agencies. In a
career of almost 50 years, she has been a formidable talent
spotter. She is artful in her choice of clients _ mostly writers,
like Stephen Sondheim, Tina Howe and Alfred Uhry _ and
sharp-sighted in her assessments of their strengths. She is a kind
of dramaturge in the guise of an agent. By Mel Gussow.

   &UR; MOVIES &LR;

   KEN-LOACH-MOVIES (London) _ Surprisingly, perhaps, given his
distaste for the prevailing social order, Ken Loach was never an
angry young man. Shy and soft-spoken, he was almost 30 by the time
he set off down the path that three decades later would earn him
recognition in Europe as the dean of leftist movie makers. By Alan
Riding.

   ALY-SHEEDY-MOVIES (Undated) _ To Americans, Aly Sheedy is still
the shining conscience of the Brat Pack of the 1980s, the sprightly
valentine at the center of classic films about the transition to
adulthood like ``The Breakfast Club'' and ``St. Elmo's Fire,'' the
touchstone for a million awkward adolescences. She is the farthest
thing imaginable from a middle-aged lesbian drug addict
photographer, which is what she plays in ``High Art.'' By Margy
Rochlin.

   HARRISONFORD-COX _ Is it any wonder then that his latest role in
the upcoming romantic comedy ``Six Days, Seven Nights'' _ boozy,
beach bumming, barely-in-business pilot Quinn Harris _ is lighter
than anything Ford has played of late? ``I wanted to do something
that was not a suit-and-tie job,'' Ford explained. ``Something
where I didn't have to go around containing the tension all the
time.''

   &UR; BOOKS  &LR;

   BAKER-INTERVIEW-NYT (Undated) _ Nicholson Baker talks about his
new novel, `The Everlasting Story of Nory'. By Sarah Lyall.

   LAMOUR-WESTERNS (Undated) _ Arts in America: Ten years after
Louis L'Amour's death, his Westerns are still big sellers. By Bruce
Weber.

   &UR; MUSIC &LR;

   COLTRANE-JAZZ (New York) _ It is a perfect indicator of jazz's
restricted place in American society that Ravi Coltrane _ who is
the son of John Coltrane _was nobody special as a boy growing up in
Woodland Hills, a suburb of Los Angeles, far away from the bohemian
world. By Ben Ratliff.

   MACHO-MUSIC (Undated) _ One of the fundamental myths of rock was
that it was essentially a man's game, a macho sport that knocked a
generation of unctuous crooning mama's boys out of the batter's box
of popular culture and allowed ``real'' men to step to the
pop-music plate. Girls who sought membership in this boys' club had
better be butch. But even performers like Patti Smith and Joan
Jett, who affected male bravado, were never fully accepted into the
highest reaches of rock's pantheon. The reality behind that myth,
of course, is something quite different. By Stephen Holden.

   CONTEMPORARY-CW-WOMEN-SPI (Undated) It's Madonna meets Patsy
Cline. With the success of performers like Shania Twain, country
music has watched its women evolve from folksy ol' gals like
Loretta Lynn and Kitty Wells to big city, sexy, pop-crossover
dynamos like Twain, Deana Carter and Mindy McCready, who sing tough
and wear navel rings and crop tops in MTV-style videos. Though
their predecessors blazed a path for them, these contemporary
country-western women are assertive in an in-your-face, sexually
upfront '90s way. We look at this new era of ``country diva.'' By
Teresa Talerico.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0240 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:43 ',
			header: '
A5259 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SOUTHERN-BAPTISTS-HNS     06-11 0451
',
			slug: ' BC-SOUTHERN-BAPTISTS-HNS ',
			headline: '
SOUTHERN BAPTISTS END MEETING WITH ONE LAST ATTACK ON CLINTON 

',
			trailer: '
   SALT LAKE CITY _ Southern Baptists concluded their annual
meeting Thursday by continuing criticism of the policies of the
nation's foremost Southern Baptist public official _ President
Clinton.

   Delegates approved a resolution urging Congress to overturn
Clinton's executive order banning discrimination in the federal
civilian workforce based on sexual orientation.

   An amendment asking that Clinton's home church in Arkansas
discipline the president for his support of gay rights was narrowly
defeated 1,071-1,005.

   Delegates also took a stand against women in combat and
concluded their session by listening to nationally known
conservative speaker and author James Dobson.

   ``Government should not give special legal protection and
endorsement to homosexuality, nor impose legal sanctions against
those who believe homosexual conduct to be immoral,'' the
resolution said. Resolutions are not binding on Southern Baptists.

   The Rev. Wiley Drake of California asked delegates to call on
Emmanuel Baptist Church in Little Rock, Ark., to consider
disciplinary action against Clinton.

   The failure of the amendment surprised Drake, who promised to
bring a similar resolution to the national convention's 1999
meeting in Atlanta.

   ``Until Bill Clinton repents and asks forgiveness, I would think
he is a member in bad standing, not good standing,'' Drake said.

   The delegates also approved a resolution opposing women in
combat.

   ``The pattern established by God throughout the Bible is that
men, not women, bear responsibility to serve in combat if war is
necessary,'' the resolution said. ``Willful rejection of a
gender-based role distinction that limits combat military service
to males is a foolish social experiment,'' the resolution stated.
The idea of women in combat comes from ``the unbiblical social
agenda of ideological feminism,'' it stated. It passed without
debate.

   Dobson, founder of the conservative Focus on the Family ministry
based in Colorado, praised the convention for taking biblical
stands on the family and moral values.

   He was warmly applauded when he spoke against partial birth
abortion, sexual immorality and pornography. Dobson urged Baptists
to participate in political elections to elect representatives with
Christian values.

   ``If the church won't defend righteousness who will do so?''
Dobson said.

   The annual meeting drew 8,555 delegates, a decrease of nearly
4,000 delegates from last year's meeting.

   &QL; 
XXXX END OF STORY &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  By RICHARD VARA 
c.1998 Houston Chronicle 

',
			paragraphs: '
   SALT LAKE CITY _ Southern Baptists concluded their annual
meeting Thursday by continuing criticism of the policies of the
nation's foremost Southern Baptist public official _ President
Clinton.

   Delegates approved a resolution urging Congress to overturn
Clinton's executive order banning discrimination in the federal
civilian workforce based on sexual orientation.

   An amendment asking that Clinton's home church in Arkansas
discipline the president for his support of gay rights was narrowly
defeated 1,071-1,005.

   Delegates also took a stand against women in combat and
concluded their session by listening to nationally known
conservative speaker and author James Dobson.

   ``Government should not give special legal protection and
endorsement to homosexuality, nor impose legal sanctions against
those who believe homosexual conduct to be immoral,'' the
resolution said. Resolutions are not binding on Southern Baptists.

   The Rev. Wiley Drake of California asked delegates to call on
Emmanuel Baptist Church in Little Rock, Ark., to consider
disciplinary action against Clinton.

   The failure of the amendment surprised Drake, who promised to
bring a similar resolution to the national convention's 1999
meeting in Atlanta.

   ``Until Bill Clinton repents and asks forgiveness, I would think
he is a member in bad standing, not good standing,'' Drake said.

   The delegates also approved a resolution opposing women in
combat.

   ``The pattern established by God throughout the Bible is that
men, not women, bear responsibility to serve in combat if war is
necessary,'' the resolution said. ``Willful rejection of a
gender-based role distinction that limits combat military service
to males is a foolish social experiment,'' the resolution stated.
The idea of women in combat comes from ``the unbiblical social
agenda of ideological feminism,'' it stated. It passed without
debate.

   Dobson, founder of the conservative Focus on the Family ministry
based in Colorado, praised the convention for taking biblical
stands on the family and moral values.

   He was warmly applauded when he spoke against partial birth
abortion, sexual immorality and pornography. Dobson urged Baptists
to participate in political elections to elect representatives with
Christian values.

   ``If the church won't defend righteousness who will do so?''
Dobson said.

   The annual meeting drew 8,555 delegates, a decrease of nearly
4,000 delegates from last year's meeting.

   &QL; 
XXXX END OF STORY &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0241 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:47 ',
			header: '
A5263 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-LADN-OUTDOORS-LADN     06-11 0789
',
			slug: ' BC-LADN-OUTDOORS-LADN ',
			headline: '
HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE TO VIETNAM
',
			trailer: '
   Uganda, Upper Volta and Iran might seem more appealing
destinations for a vacation or backpacking trip than Vietnam for
many Americans.

   Karin Muller, however, has put together a fascinating account of
her seven months crisscrossing Vietnam.

   But the title of her 312-page book, ``Hitchhiking Vietnam: A
Woman's Solo Journey in an Elusive Land'' (Globe Pequot; $24.95) is
a bit of a misnomer. Muller, who became a sort of professional
traveler after a Peace Corps stint in the Philippines, traversed
Vietnam four times by motorbike, bicycle, train, boat and foot, in
addition to hitchhiking. (Her experiences will be the subject of a
PBS special.)

   The book reflects its Third World setting; it is in no hurry to
get anywhere and often goes around in circles. Vietnam is a place
where things just don't work the way one might be accustomed;
visitors often can't get from Point A to Point B without going to
Point C and Point D.

   The Switzerland native who grew up in the U.S. has done a good
job describing some strange and hilarious cross-cultural encounters
and weaves the accompanying anecdotes well. She describes her
maddening experiences with early guides who were determined to
fleece her for as much as she was worth. She takes us to a
Kafkaesque world where the bureaucracy makes little sense but to
which she quickly adapts: ``Always bribe the first man who asks for
your papers.'' And she praises the locals for having a gift for
survival and bearing no grudge against her despite the war.

   Also engaging is her attempt to explain to Hmong tribesmen a
photo essay in Life magazine about a poor American family, though
the U.S. family had more material possessions than the Hmongs.

   Some of her experiences may seem familiar to anyone who has
either spent serious time in a Third World nation or been in the
outdoors for weeks on end. She took ill (scurvy and a stake
impalement, for example) from exposure to the elements, poor
shelter, wretched health care and native food (including weeds and
bugs).

   While enlightening elements, they could have been taken farther
toward relating to a coherent whole _ for example, it was never
quite clear why Muller chose Vietnam in the first place.

   She mentions something about a challenge from a Vietnam War
veteran. And the book could have used more context _ a sense of
history, or of anything besides a straight travel narrative. Our
rating: (three and a half stars)

   Despite many outdoors guidebooks on the market, titles that
chronicle accommodations in National Parks seem to have fallen
through the cracks.

   A bare-bones approach to filling the gap seems inadequate in
``The Complete Guide to the National Park Lodges'' (Globe Pequot,
$16.95).

   Two things mar this 240-page work by David L. Scott and Kay W.
Scott: A lack of photos (it has sketches instead) and rate
information that is far too vague. The authors do not approximate
costs but using $$$$ for expensive and $$ for moderate. That's not
good enough.

   Photos would have given this book some color, which it sorely
lacks. Many of the edifices are masterpieces of architecture _
invaluable landmarks with spectacular views. Without pictures,
descriptions are meaningless.

   In its favor is that lodges outside the parks' boundaries are
listed. Still, the reader would have been better served with the
title ``The Incomplete Guide to the National Park Lodges.'' Our
rating: (one and a half stars)

   Yet another camping guide? Yes, and ``Making Camp: A Complete
Guide for Hikers, Mountain Bikers, Paddlers &AMP; Skiers'' (The
Mountaineers; $16.95) proves there is a real niche for well-written
books on well-worn topics.

   The secret in such a case, as evidenced in the 224 pages by
Steve Howe, Alan Kesselheim, Dennis Coello and John Harlin, is to
keep the copy relatively simple and take a common-sense approach.
It is smartly structured, with general overviews of backpacking and
more specialized chapters on canoeing and kayak travel, bicycling
and winter trips. Experts are tapped for comments for each area.

   The quartet of authors steers clear of seeking camping
perfection: ``Don't be afraid to make mistakes; just make them
manageable and be ready to solve them on your own.'' The book
concedes that, for example, most people will either pack too much
or too little.

   Numerous helpful tips include the use of a food dehydrator,
variety in diet and avoiding cotton clothing. And they are all tied
together by strong writing that is as easy to read as a clear map.
Our rating: (three stars) &QL;
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By RICH MARTIN 
c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News 

',
			paragraphs: '
   Uganda, Upper Volta and Iran might seem more appealing
destinations for a vacation or backpacking trip than Vietnam for
many Americans.

   Karin Muller, however, has put together a fascinating account of
her seven months crisscrossing Vietnam.

   But the title of her 312-page book, ``Hitchhiking Vietnam: A
Woman's Solo Journey in an Elusive Land'' (Globe Pequot; $24.95) is
a bit of a misnomer. Muller, who became a sort of professional
traveler after a Peace Corps stint in the Philippines, traversed
Vietnam four times by motorbike, bicycle, train, boat and foot, in
addition to hitchhiking. (Her experiences will be the subject of a
PBS special.)

   The book reflects its Third World setting; it is in no hurry to
get anywhere and often goes around in circles. Vietnam is a place
where things just don't work the way one might be accustomed;
visitors often can't get from Point A to Point B without going to
Point C and Point D.

   The Switzerland native who grew up in the U.S. has done a good
job describing some strange and hilarious cross-cultural encounters
and weaves the accompanying anecdotes well. She describes her
maddening experiences with early guides who were determined to
fleece her for as much as she was worth. She takes us to a
Kafkaesque world where the bureaucracy makes little sense but to
which she quickly adapts: ``Always bribe the first man who asks for
your papers.'' And she praises the locals for having a gift for
survival and bearing no grudge against her despite the war.

   Also engaging is her attempt to explain to Hmong tribesmen a
photo essay in Life magazine about a poor American family, though
the U.S. family had more material possessions than the Hmongs.

   Some of her experiences may seem familiar to anyone who has
either spent serious time in a Third World nation or been in the
outdoors for weeks on end. She took ill (scurvy and a stake
impalement, for example) from exposure to the elements, poor
shelter, wretched health care and native food (including weeds and
bugs).

   While enlightening elements, they could have been taken farther
toward relating to a coherent whole _ for example, it was never
quite clear why Muller chose Vietnam in the first place.

   She mentions something about a challenge from a Vietnam War
veteran. And the book could have used more context _ a sense of
history, or of anything besides a straight travel narrative. Our
rating: (three and a half stars)

   Despite many outdoors guidebooks on the market, titles that
chronicle accommodations in National Parks seem to have fallen
through the cracks.

   A bare-bones approach to filling the gap seems inadequate in
``The Complete Guide to the National Park Lodges'' (Globe Pequot,
$16.95).

   Two things mar this 240-page work by David L. Scott and Kay W.
Scott: A lack of photos (it has sketches instead) and rate
information that is far too vague. The authors do not approximate
costs but using $$$$ for expensive and $$ for moderate. That's not
good enough.

   Photos would have given this book some color, which it sorely
lacks. Many of the edifices are masterpieces of architecture _
invaluable landmarks with spectacular views. Without pictures,
descriptions are meaningless.

   In its favor is that lodges outside the parks' boundaries are
listed. Still, the reader would have been better served with the
title ``The Incomplete Guide to the National Park Lodges.'' Our
rating: (one and a half stars)

   Yet another camping guide? Yes, and ``Making Camp: A Complete
Guide for Hikers, Mountain Bikers, Paddlers &AMP; Skiers'' (The
Mountaineers; $16.95) proves there is a real niche for well-written
books on well-worn topics.

   The secret in such a case, as evidenced in the 224 pages by
Steve Howe, Alan Kesselheim, Dennis Coello and John Harlin, is to
keep the copy relatively simple and take a common-sense approach.
It is smartly structured, with general overviews of backpacking and
more specialized chapters on canoeing and kayak travel, bicycling
and winter trips. Experts are tapped for comments for each area.

   The quartet of authors steers clear of seeking camping
perfection: ``Don't be afraid to make mistakes; just make them
manageable and be ready to solve them on your own.'' The book
concedes that, for example, most people will either pack too much
or too little.

   Numerous helpful tips include the use of a food dehydrator,
variety in diet and avoiding cotton clothing. And they are all tied
together by strong writing that is as easy to read as a clear map.
Our rating: (three stars) &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0242 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:47 ',
			header: '
A5264 &Cx1f; ttc-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BUSINESS-LADN &LR;      06-11 0265
',
			slug: ' BC-BUSINESS-LADN ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here are the business news stories the Los Angeles Daily News
plans to move for use by NYTimes News Service clients, AMs and PMs
of Friday, June 12 and thereafter. The stories will carry the ``f''
financial news category code unless otherwise noted. For questions
about stories, contact Stewart Slavin at the Daily News, (818)
713-3701.

   BEANIE-DISNEY (Los Angeles) _ The Beanie wars heat up with
Disney announcing it is retiring a dozen of its older Mini Bean Bag
characters, including Mickey and Minnie. When Ty Inc. _ the leading
Beanie Babies producer _ announced similar ``retirements,''
collectors went into a frenzy and now some Ty Beanie Babies sell
for as much as $10,000 each. By Dave McNary.

   TIME-LEVIN-MEDIA (Beverly Hills, Calif.) _ Time Warner chief
Gerald Levin decries the `tabloidization' of news coverage,
asserting, ``It's the media's responsibility to protect its own
freedom,'' at a business luncheon in Beverly Hills. By Dave McNary.

   THQ-JAKKS (Los Angeles) _ THQ Inc. and JAKKS Pacific Inc. signed
a 10-year agreement with Titan Sports Inc. to publish World
Wrestling Federation (WWF) electronic games on all platforms. By
Enrique Rivero.

   GM-SUPERIOR (Los Angeles) _ The General Motors strike that
already has idled eight assembly plants across the country may soon
extend its reach into Los Angeles. Superior Industries, a
manufacturer of cast aluminum wheels for the automotive industry,
could shut down some of its six plants nationwide as early as next
week. By Deborah Adamson.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here are the business news stories the Los Angeles Daily News
plans to move for use by NYTimes News Service clients, AMs and PMs
of Friday, June 12 and thereafter. The stories will carry the ``f''
financial news category code unless otherwise noted. For questions
about stories, contact Stewart Slavin at the Daily News, (818)
713-3701.

   BEANIE-DISNEY (Los Angeles) _ The Beanie wars heat up with
Disney announcing it is retiring a dozen of its older Mini Bean Bag
characters, including Mickey and Minnie. When Ty Inc. _ the leading
Beanie Babies producer _ announced similar ``retirements,''
collectors went into a frenzy and now some Ty Beanie Babies sell
for as much as $10,000 each. By Dave McNary.

   TIME-LEVIN-MEDIA (Beverly Hills, Calif.) _ Time Warner chief
Gerald Levin decries the `tabloidization' of news coverage,
asserting, ``It's the media's responsibility to protect its own
freedom,'' at a business luncheon in Beverly Hills. By Dave McNary.

   THQ-JAKKS (Los Angeles) _ THQ Inc. and JAKKS Pacific Inc. signed
a 10-year agreement with Titan Sports Inc. to publish World
Wrestling Federation (WWF) electronic games on all platforms. By
Enrique Rivero.

   GM-SUPERIOR (Los Angeles) _ The General Motors strike that
already has idled eight assembly plants across the country may soon
extend its reach into Los Angeles. Superior Industries, a
manufacturer of cast aluminum wheels for the automotive industry,
could shut down some of its six plants nationwide as early as next
week. By Deborah Adamson.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0243 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:48 ',
			header: '
A5266 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT &LR;      06-11 0526
',
			slug: ' BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here are the New York Times News Service Macintosh graphics
scheduled for AMs of Friday, 06/12/98. They are available to all
NYT graphic clients via satellite on Associated Press GraphicsNet,
and will be posted on PressLink, Newscom and the Wieck
PhotoDatabase bulletin boards. For retransmission of graphics from
the AP, call the AP Service Desk at 212-621-7983.

   Non-subscribers may make individual graphics purchases or get
additional information by calling the NYT Photo/Graphics desk at
(212) 556-4204 between noon and 10 p.m. EST.

   GENERAL

   KOSOVO/Serbian Troops -- Size Tk -- (BC-KOSOVO-NATO-NYT)

   Serbian troops in Kosovo; how they got there

   ETHIOPIA/Badame, Eritrea -- 1X2 1/2 -- (BC-ETHIOPIA-ERITREA-NYT)

   Locator map

   APPLE'S/Savannah, Ga. Map -- 2X4 1/2 --
(BC-APPLE'S-SAVANNAH-NYT)

   Locator map

   SUNDAY FINANCIAL

   Here is a preliminary look at the graphics scheduled for the
Sunday financial section of The Times. These graphics will be
transmitted Friday evening. The descriptions and sizes are
tentative. Please check tomorrow's late budget for stories and
specific graphics.

   CLUBCORP/Clubs' overview -- 78p x 7 -- (BC-CLUBCORP-DISPUTE-NYT)

   Map of Clubcorp's golf clubs, revenues, membership and earnings.

   INVEST/European indicators -- 12p6 x 9 --

   (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OVERVIEW-NYT)

   Five leading indicators of the European Union; leading
companies.

   INVEST/European markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-HOW-NYT)

   How the stock markets perform in 10 European nations.

   INVEST/Other markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE-NYT)

   How markets outside Europe have been performing.

   INVEST/Closed end funds -- 25p6 x 5 3/4 --

   (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-INDIRECT-NYT)

   List of closed end country funds.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian fund -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Contrarian fund facts and figures.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian stocks -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Charts of three stock in the Contrarian fund.

   INVEST/Earnings surprise -- 14p6 x 3 3/4 --

   (BC-INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS-NYT)

   How a surprise, bad earnings report effects the market.

   SPEND/Bestsellers -- 30p6 x 8 1/2 -- (BC-SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS-NYT)

   Best selling business books.

   ABOUT-CARS/Porsche -- 30p6 x 4 3/4 --
(BC-ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE-NYT)

   Comparing the Acura, Chevrolet, Dodge and Porsche.

   BIZWEEK Chart 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   MARKETWATCH/Thumbnail 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   SUNFIN WEEKLY 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   KEY RATES/Weekly 06/14 -- 6 x 3 1/2 -- Weekly financial chart

   THE WORLD MARKETS 06/14 -- 2 x 8 -- Stand alone chart

   World stock markets and tabular material on world currencies.

   FINANCIAL

   ASIA/Econ Crisis Continues -- Size Tk -- (BC-ASIA-GLOOM-NYT)

   The Asian financial crisis is mutating into the Asian recession

   UNITED/Video, News Corp. Deal -- 2X5 -- (BC-UNITED-TV-GUIDE-NYT)

   A look at the United Video/News Corp. deal

   ELECTRONIC/Market Seat Prices -- Size Tk --
(BC-ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE-NYT)

   Seat Exchange prices are decreasing

   Winners &AMP; Losers -- 20p x 3 5/15 -- Alternating business chart.

   The New York Times News Service
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here are the New York Times News Service Macintosh graphics
scheduled for AMs of Friday, 06/12/98. They are available to all
NYT graphic clients via satellite on Associated Press GraphicsNet,
and will be posted on PressLink, Newscom and the Wieck
PhotoDatabase bulletin boards. For retransmission of graphics from
the AP, call the AP Service Desk at 212-621-7983.

   Non-subscribers may make individual graphics purchases or get
additional information by calling the NYT Photo/Graphics desk at
(212) 556-4204 between noon and 10 p.m. EST.

   GENERAL

   KOSOVO/Serbian Troops -- Size Tk -- (BC-KOSOVO-NATO-NYT)

   Serbian troops in Kosovo; how they got there

   ETHIOPIA/Badame, Eritrea -- 1X2 1/2 -- (BC-ETHIOPIA-ERITREA-NYT)

   Locator map

   APPLE'S/Savannah, Ga. Map -- 2X4 1/2 --
(BC-APPLE'S-SAVANNAH-NYT)

   Locator map

   SUNDAY FINANCIAL

   Here is a preliminary look at the graphics scheduled for the
Sunday financial section of The Times. These graphics will be
transmitted Friday evening. The descriptions and sizes are
tentative. Please check tomorrow's late budget for stories and
specific graphics.

   CLUBCORP/Clubs' overview -- 78p x 7 -- (BC-CLUBCORP-DISPUTE-NYT)

   Map of Clubcorp's golf clubs, revenues, membership and earnings.

   INVEST/European indicators -- 12p6 x 9 --

   (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OVERVIEW-NYT)

   Five leading indicators of the European Union; leading
companies.

   INVEST/European markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-HOW-NYT)

   How the stock markets perform in 10 European nations.

   INVEST/Other markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE-NYT)

   How markets outside Europe have been performing.

   INVEST/Closed end funds -- 25p6 x 5 3/4 --

   (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-INDIRECT-NYT)

   List of closed end country funds.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian fund -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Contrarian fund facts and figures.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian stocks -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Charts of three stock in the Contrarian fund.

   INVEST/Earnings surprise -- 14p6 x 3 3/4 --

   (BC-INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS-NYT)

   How a surprise, bad earnings report effects the market.

   SPEND/Bestsellers -- 30p6 x 8 1/2 -- (BC-SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS-NYT)

   Best selling business books.

   ABOUT-CARS/Porsche -- 30p6 x 4 3/4 --
(BC-ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE-NYT)

   Comparing the Acura, Chevrolet, Dodge and Porsche.

   BIZWEEK Chart 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   MARKETWATCH/Thumbnail 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   SUNFIN WEEKLY 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   KEY RATES/Weekly 06/14 -- 6 x 3 1/2 -- Weekly financial chart

   THE WORLD MARKETS 06/14 -- 2 x 8 -- Stand alone chart

   World stock markets and tabular material on world currencies.

   FINANCIAL

   ASIA/Econ Crisis Continues -- Size Tk -- (BC-ASIA-GLOOM-NYT)

   The Asian financial crisis is mutating into the Asian recession

   UNITED/Video, News Corp. Deal -- 2X5 -- (BC-UNITED-TV-GUIDE-NYT)

   A look at the United Video/News Corp. deal

   ELECTRONIC/Market Seat Prices -- Size Tk --
(BC-ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE-NYT)

   Seat Exchange prices are decreasing

   Winners &AMP; Losers -- 20p x 3 5/15 -- Alternating business chart.

   The New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0244 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:49 ',
			header: '
A5267 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT &LR;      06-11 0526
',
			slug: ' BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here are the New York Times News Service Macintosh graphics
scheduled for AMs of Friday, 06/12/98. They are available to all
NYT graphic clients via satellite on Associated Press GraphicsNet,
and will be posted on PressLink, Newscom and the Wieck
PhotoDatabase bulletin boards. For retransmission of graphics from
the AP, call the AP Service Desk at 212-621-7983.

   Non-subscribers may make individual graphics purchases or get
additional information by calling the NYT Photo/Graphics desk at
(212) 556-4204 between noon and 10 p.m. EST.

   GENERAL

   KOSOVO/Serbian Troops -- Size Tk -- (BC-KOSOVO-NATO-NYT)

   Serbian troops in Kosovo; how they got there

   ETHIOPIA/Badame, Eritrea -- 1X2 1/2 -- (BC-ETHIOPIA-ERITREA-NYT)

   Locator map

   APPLE'S/Savannah, Ga. Map -- 2X4 1/2 --
(BC-APPLE'S-SAVANNAH-NYT)

   Locator map

   SUNDAY FINANCIAL

   Here is a preliminary look at the graphics scheduled for the
Sunday financial section of The Times. These graphics will be
transmitted Friday evening. The descriptions and sizes are
tentative. Please check tomorrow's late budget for stories and
specific graphics.

   CLUBCORP/Clubs' overview -- 78p x 7 -- (BC-CLUBCORP-DISPUTE-NYT)

   Map of Clubcorp's golf clubs, revenues, membership and earnings.

   INVEST/European indicators -- 12p6 x 9 --

   (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OVERVIEW-NYT)

   Five leading indicators of the European Union; leading
companies.

   INVEST/European markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-HOW-NYT)

   How the stock markets perform in 10 European nations.

   INVEST/Other markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE-NYT)

   How markets outside Europe have been performing.

   INVEST/Closed end funds -- 25p6 x 5 3/4 --

   (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-INDIRECT-NYT)

   List of closed end country funds.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian fund -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Contrarian fund facts and figures.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian stocks -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Charts of three stock in the Contrarian fund.

   INVEST/Earnings surprise -- 14p6 x 3 3/4 --

   (BC-INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS-NYT)

   How a surprise, bad earnings report effects the market.

   SPEND/Bestsellers -- 30p6 x 8 1/2 -- (BC-SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS-NYT)

   Best selling business books.

   ABOUT-CARS/Porsche -- 30p6 x 4 3/4 --
(BC-ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE-NYT)

   Comparing the Acura, Chevrolet, Dodge and Porsche.

   BIZWEEK Chart 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   MARKETWATCH/Thumbnail 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   SUNFIN WEEKLY 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   KEY RATES/Weekly 06/14 -- 6 x 3 1/2 -- Weekly financial chart

   THE WORLD MARKETS 06/14 -- 2 x 8 -- Stand alone chart

   World stock markets and tabular material on world currencies.

   FINANCIAL

   ASIA/Econ Crisis Continues -- Size Tk -- (BC-ASIA-GLOOM-NYT)

   The Asian financial crisis is mutating into the Asian recession

   UNITED/Video, News Corp. Deal -- 2X5 -- (BC-UNITED-TV-GUIDE-NYT)

   A look at the United Video/News Corp. deal

   ELECTRONIC/Market Seat Prices -- Size Tk --
(BC-ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE-NYT)

   Seat Exchange prices are decreasing

   Winners &AMP; Losers -- 20p x 3 5/15 -- Alternating business chart.

   The New York Times News Service
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here are the New York Times News Service Macintosh graphics
scheduled for AMs of Friday, 06/12/98. They are available to all
NYT graphic clients via satellite on Associated Press GraphicsNet,
and will be posted on PressLink, Newscom and the Wieck
PhotoDatabase bulletin boards. For retransmission of graphics from
the AP, call the AP Service Desk at 212-621-7983.

   Non-subscribers may make individual graphics purchases or get
additional information by calling the NYT Photo/Graphics desk at
(212) 556-4204 between noon and 10 p.m. EST.

   GENERAL

   KOSOVO/Serbian Troops -- Size Tk -- (BC-KOSOVO-NATO-NYT)

   Serbian troops in Kosovo; how they got there

   ETHIOPIA/Badame, Eritrea -- 1X2 1/2 -- (BC-ETHIOPIA-ERITREA-NYT)

   Locator map

   APPLE'S/Savannah, Ga. Map -- 2X4 1/2 --
(BC-APPLE'S-SAVANNAH-NYT)

   Locator map

   SUNDAY FINANCIAL

   Here is a preliminary look at the graphics scheduled for the
Sunday financial section of The Times. These graphics will be
transmitted Friday evening. The descriptions and sizes are
tentative. Please check tomorrow's late budget for stories and
specific graphics.

   CLUBCORP/Clubs' overview -- 78p x 7 -- (BC-CLUBCORP-DISPUTE-NYT)

   Map of Clubcorp's golf clubs, revenues, membership and earnings.

   INVEST/European indicators -- 12p6 x 9 --

   (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OVERVIEW-NYT)

   Five leading indicators of the European Union; leading
companies.

   INVEST/European markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-HOW-NYT)

   How the stock markets perform in 10 European nations.

   INVEST/Other markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE-NYT)

   How markets outside Europe have been performing.

   INVEST/Closed end funds -- 25p6 x 5 3/4 --

   (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-INDIRECT-NYT)

   List of closed end country funds.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian fund -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Contrarian fund facts and figures.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian stocks -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Charts of three stock in the Contrarian fund.

   INVEST/Earnings surprise -- 14p6 x 3 3/4 --

   (BC-INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS-NYT)

   How a surprise, bad earnings report effects the market.

   SPEND/Bestsellers -- 30p6 x 8 1/2 -- (BC-SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS-NYT)

   Best selling business books.

   ABOUT-CARS/Porsche -- 30p6 x 4 3/4 --
(BC-ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE-NYT)

   Comparing the Acura, Chevrolet, Dodge and Porsche.

   BIZWEEK Chart 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   MARKETWATCH/Thumbnail 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   SUNFIN WEEKLY 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   KEY RATES/Weekly 06/14 -- 6 x 3 1/2 -- Weekly financial chart

   THE WORLD MARKETS 06/14 -- 2 x 8 -- Stand alone chart

   World stock markets and tabular material on world currencies.

   FINANCIAL

   ASIA/Econ Crisis Continues -- Size Tk -- (BC-ASIA-GLOOM-NYT)

   The Asian financial crisis is mutating into the Asian recession

   UNITED/Video, News Corp. Deal -- 2X5 -- (BC-UNITED-TV-GUIDE-NYT)

   A look at the United Video/News Corp. deal

   ELECTRONIC/Market Seat Prices -- Size Tk --
(BC-ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE-NYT)

   Seat Exchange prices are decreasing

   Winners &AMP; Losers -- 20p x 3 5/15 -- Alternating business chart.

   The New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0245 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:49 ',
			header: '
A5268 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT &LR;      06-11 0526
',
			slug: ' BC-GRAPHICS-BUDGET-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here are the New York Times News Service Macintosh graphics
scheduled for AMs of Friday, 06/12/98. They are available to all
NYT graphic clients via satellite on Associated Press GraphicsNet,
and will be posted on PressLink, Newscom and the Wieck
PhotoDatabase bulletin boards. For retransmission of graphics from
the AP, call the AP Service Desk at 212-621-7983.

   Non-subscribers may make individual graphics purchases or get
additional information by calling the NYT Photo/Graphics desk at
(212) 556-4204 between noon and 10 p.m. EST.

   GENERAL

   KOSOVO/Serbian Troops -- Size Tk -- (BC-KOSOVO-NATO-NYT)

   Serbian troops in Kosovo; how they got there

   ETHIOPIA/Badame, Eritrea -- 1X2 1/2 -- (BC-ETHIOPIA-ERITREA-NYT)

   Locator map

   APPLE'S/Savannah, Ga. Map -- 2X4 1/2 --
(BC-APPLE'S-SAVANNAH-NYT)

   Locator map

   SUNDAY FINANCIAL

   Here is a preliminary look at the graphics scheduled for the
Sunday financial section of The Times. These graphics will be
transmitted Friday evening. The descriptions and sizes are
tentative. Please check tomorrow's late budget for stories and
specific graphics.

   CLUBCORP/Clubs' overview -- 78p x 7 -- (BC-CLUBCORP-DISPUTE-NYT)

   Map of Clubcorp's golf clubs, revenues, membership and earnings.

   INVEST/European indicators -- 12p6 x 9 --

   (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OVERVIEW-NYT)

   Five leading indicators of the European Union; leading
companies.

   INVEST/European markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-HOW-NYT)

   How the stock markets perform in 10 European nations.

   INVEST/Other markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE-NYT)

   How markets outside Europe have been performing.

   INVEST/Closed end funds -- 25p6 x 5 3/4 --

   (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-INDIRECT-NYT)

   List of closed end country funds.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian fund -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Contrarian fund facts and figures.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian stocks -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Charts of three stock in the Contrarian fund.

   INVEST/Earnings surprise -- 14p6 x 3 3/4 --

   (BC-INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS-NYT)

   How a surprise, bad earnings report effects the market.

   SPEND/Bestsellers -- 30p6 x 8 1/2 -- (BC-SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS-NYT)

   Best selling business books.

   ABOUT-CARS/Porsche -- 30p6 x 4 3/4 --
(BC-ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE-NYT)

   Comparing the Acura, Chevrolet, Dodge and Porsche.

   BIZWEEK Chart 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   MARKETWATCH/Thumbnail 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   SUNFIN WEEKLY 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   KEY RATES/Weekly 06/14 -- 6 x 3 1/2 -- Weekly financial chart

   THE WORLD MARKETS 06/14 -- 2 x 8 -- Stand alone chart

   World stock markets and tabular material on world currencies.

   FINANCIAL

   ASIA/Econ Crisis Continues -- Size Tk -- (BC-ASIA-GLOOM-NYT)

   The Asian financial crisis is mutating into the Asian recession

   UNITED/Video, News Corp. Deal -- 2X5 -- (BC-UNITED-TV-GUIDE-NYT)

   A look at the United Video/News Corp. deal

   ELECTRONIC/Market Seat Prices -- Size Tk --
(BC-ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE-NYT)

   Seat Exchange prices are decreasing

   Winners &AMP; Losers -- 20p x 3 5/15 -- Alternating business chart.

   The New York Times News Service
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here are the New York Times News Service Macintosh graphics
scheduled for AMs of Friday, 06/12/98. They are available to all
NYT graphic clients via satellite on Associated Press GraphicsNet,
and will be posted on PressLink, Newscom and the Wieck
PhotoDatabase bulletin boards. For retransmission of graphics from
the AP, call the AP Service Desk at 212-621-7983.

   Non-subscribers may make individual graphics purchases or get
additional information by calling the NYT Photo/Graphics desk at
(212) 556-4204 between noon and 10 p.m. EST.

   GENERAL

   KOSOVO/Serbian Troops -- Size Tk -- (BC-KOSOVO-NATO-NYT)

   Serbian troops in Kosovo; how they got there

   ETHIOPIA/Badame, Eritrea -- 1X2 1/2 -- (BC-ETHIOPIA-ERITREA-NYT)

   Locator map

   APPLE'S/Savannah, Ga. Map -- 2X4 1/2 --
(BC-APPLE'S-SAVANNAH-NYT)

   Locator map

   SUNDAY FINANCIAL

   Here is a preliminary look at the graphics scheduled for the
Sunday financial section of The Times. These graphics will be
transmitted Friday evening. The descriptions and sizes are
tentative. Please check tomorrow's late budget for stories and
specific graphics.

   CLUBCORP/Clubs' overview -- 78p x 7 -- (BC-CLUBCORP-DISPUTE-NYT)

   Map of Clubcorp's golf clubs, revenues, membership and earnings.

   INVEST/European indicators -- 12p6 x 9 --

   (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OVERVIEW-NYT)

   Five leading indicators of the European Union; leading
companies.

   INVEST/European markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-HOW-NYT)

   How the stock markets perform in 10 European nations.

   INVEST/Other markets -- tk -- (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE-NYT)

   How markets outside Europe have been performing.

   INVEST/Closed end funds -- 25p6 x 5 3/4 --

   (BC-INVEST-EUROPE-INDIRECT-NYT)

   List of closed end country funds.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian fund -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Contrarian fund facts and figures.

   MUTFUND/Contrarian stocks -- tk -- (BC-MUTFUND-DREMAN-NYT)

   Charts of three stock in the Contrarian fund.

   INVEST/Earnings surprise -- 14p6 x 3 3/4 --

   (BC-INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS-NYT)

   How a surprise, bad earnings report effects the market.

   SPEND/Bestsellers -- 30p6 x 8 1/2 -- (BC-SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS-NYT)

   Best selling business books.

   ABOUT-CARS/Porsche -- 30p6 x 4 3/4 --
(BC-ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE-NYT)

   Comparing the Acura, Chevrolet, Dodge and Porsche.

   BIZWEEK Chart 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   MARKETWATCH/Thumbnail 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   SUNFIN WEEKLY 06/14 -- Weekly financial chart

   KEY RATES/Weekly 06/14 -- 6 x 3 1/2 -- Weekly financial chart

   THE WORLD MARKETS 06/14 -- 2 x 8 -- Stand alone chart

   World stock markets and tabular material on world currencies.

   FINANCIAL

   ASIA/Econ Crisis Continues -- Size Tk -- (BC-ASIA-GLOOM-NYT)

   The Asian financial crisis is mutating into the Asian recession

   UNITED/Video, News Corp. Deal -- 2X5 -- (BC-UNITED-TV-GUIDE-NYT)

   A look at the United Video/News Corp. deal

   ELECTRONIC/Market Seat Prices -- Size Tk --
(BC-ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE-NYT)

   Seat Exchange prices are decreasing

   Winners &AMP; Losers -- 20p x 3 5/15 -- Alternating business chart.

   The New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0246 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:49 ',
			header: '
A5269 &Cx1f; tib-z
u k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ROSENTHAL-COLUMN-NYT &LR;      06-11 0763
',
			slug: ' BC-ROSENTHAL-COLUMN-NYT ',
			headline: '
COMMENTARY: POINTING THE FINGER 
',
			trailer: '
   The three-day meeting on fighting drugs was one of the more
useful United Nations conferences in decades. It was well led by
Pino Arlacchi, the Italian Mafia-buster, drew chiefs of state and
narcotics specialists from every part of the world, and wound up
with a plan to eliminate the growing of illegal heroin and cocaine
in 10 years _ certainly difficult but certainly doable. &QL;

   So, months before the opening Monday, a campaign to attack the
conference was planned. It was worked out by Americans who devote
their careers and foundation grants not to struggling against
narcotics but legalizing them under one camouflage or another. &QL;

   Before the first gavel, they were ready with advertisements
writing off the conference, had rounded up American and European
signatures denouncing the war against drugs as a failure, and had
mobilized their network of web sites. &QL;

   They convinced one or two convincible journalists that people
opposed to the anti-drug effort had been banned from talking at
meetings of specialists and organizations. That's strange, because
at the very first forum I attended there were as many legalizers as
drug fighters making statements and asking questions. &QL;

   The propaganda was professionally crafted. Hundreds of
well-known people and wannabes signed an opening-day two-page
advertisement in The New York Times. It had no proposals except for
a ``dialogue,'' which already has gone on a half-century. &QL;

   The word ``legalization'' was not used. Legalizers and their
financial quartermasters know Americans are 87 percent against
legalization. So now they use camouflage phrases like ``harm
reduction'' _ permitting drug abuse without penalty, the first step
toward de facto legalization. &QL;

   One signer told me that she did indeed favor legalization but
that in such campaigns you just don't use words that will upset the
public. &QL;

   I have more respect for her, somewhat, than for prominent
ad-signers who deny drug legalization is the goal. And for signers
who, God help us, do not even know the real goal, here's a
statement by Dr. Ethan Nadelmann, now George Soros' chief narcotics
specialist and field commander, in 1993 when he still spoke,
unforked, about legalization: &QL;

   ``It's nice to think that in another five or 10 years ... the
right to possess and consume drugs may be as powerfully and as
widely understood as the other rights of Americans are.'' Plain
enough?  &QL;

   The conference is finished, legalizers are not. Hours after
publication of this column, masses of denunciatory e-mail letters
to the editor will arrive at The Times. Judging by the past, the
web-site chiefs will announce gleefully that virtually all the
letters The Times printed supported them, and how much that
publicity would have cost if they had to pay for it. Anti-drug
letters will arrive too late. &QL;

   Now, I have a problem. Knowing that Americans are so against
legalization and the multiplication of addiction, crime and
destroyed souls it will create, I ask myself why I write about
legalizers at all. They live by publicity, which can mean more
millions from Soros and a few other backers. &QL;

   But the legalization minority includes many intellectuals,
academics, journalists and others with access to lecture rooms,
print and TV. So consistently do they spread their falsehood that
the drug war has failed that even some Americans who want to fight
drugs believe there's no use trying. America still suffers
agonizingly from illegal drugs, but as President Clinton told the
United Nations, overall U.S. drug use has dropped 49 percent since
1979, cocaine use has dropped 70 percent since 1985, crime usually
related to drugs has decreased five years in a row. &QL;

   Yet the anti-drug movement has never rallied to tell Americans
about the legalizers' identities and techniques. Washington and the
United Nations, including Arlacci, have even softened their
language _ such as not using the phrase ``drug war'' anymore. &QL;

   Washington's big new anti-drug ad campaign will be useful, but
not very, unless it not only urges parents to talk to children, but
parents to talk to other parents, about the legalizers, in or out
of camouflage. &QL;

   Surely it is time for the president to dissect America's
legalizers and publicly point the finger at them. If he is too
delicate, or politically fearful, the rest of us will have to do
the job of denying them acceptability or cover; it's worth the
space.
',
			body: '


   (af)  
 By A.M. ROSENTHAL   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   The three-day meeting on fighting drugs was one of the more
useful United Nations conferences in decades. It was well led by
Pino Arlacchi, the Italian Mafia-buster, drew chiefs of state and
narcotics specialists from every part of the world, and wound up
with a plan to eliminate the growing of illegal heroin and cocaine
in 10 years _ certainly difficult but certainly doable. &QL;

   So, months before the opening Monday, a campaign to attack the
conference was planned. It was worked out by Americans who devote
their careers and foundation grants not to struggling against
narcotics but legalizing them under one camouflage or another. &QL;

   Before the first gavel, they were ready with advertisements
writing off the conference, had rounded up American and European
signatures denouncing the war against drugs as a failure, and had
mobilized their network of web sites. &QL;

   They convinced one or two convincible journalists that people
opposed to the anti-drug effort had been banned from talking at
meetings of specialists and organizations. That's strange, because
at the very first forum I attended there were as many legalizers as
drug fighters making statements and asking questions. &QL;

   The propaganda was professionally crafted. Hundreds of
well-known people and wannabes signed an opening-day two-page
advertisement in The New York Times. It had no proposals except for
a ``dialogue,'' which already has gone on a half-century. &QL;

   The word ``legalization'' was not used. Legalizers and their
financial quartermasters know Americans are 87 percent against
legalization. So now they use camouflage phrases like ``harm
reduction'' _ permitting drug abuse without penalty, the first step
toward de facto legalization. &QL;

   One signer told me that she did indeed favor legalization but
that in such campaigns you just don't use words that will upset the
public. &QL;

   I have more respect for her, somewhat, than for prominent
ad-signers who deny drug legalization is the goal. And for signers
who, God help us, do not even know the real goal, here's a
statement by Dr. Ethan Nadelmann, now George Soros' chief narcotics
specialist and field commander, in 1993 when he still spoke,
unforked, about legalization: &QL;

   ``It's nice to think that in another five or 10 years ... the
right to possess and consume drugs may be as powerfully and as
widely understood as the other rights of Americans are.'' Plain
enough?  &QL;

   The conference is finished, legalizers are not. Hours after
publication of this column, masses of denunciatory e-mail letters
to the editor will arrive at The Times. Judging by the past, the
web-site chiefs will announce gleefully that virtually all the
letters The Times printed supported them, and how much that
publicity would have cost if they had to pay for it. Anti-drug
letters will arrive too late. &QL;

   Now, I have a problem. Knowing that Americans are so against
legalization and the multiplication of addiction, crime and
destroyed souls it will create, I ask myself why I write about
legalizers at all. They live by publicity, which can mean more
millions from Soros and a few other backers. &QL;

   But the legalization minority includes many intellectuals,
academics, journalists and others with access to lecture rooms,
print and TV. So consistently do they spread their falsehood that
the drug war has failed that even some Americans who want to fight
drugs believe there's no use trying. America still suffers
agonizingly from illegal drugs, but as President Clinton told the
United Nations, overall U.S. drug use has dropped 49 percent since
1979, cocaine use has dropped 70 percent since 1985, crime usually
related to drugs has decreased five years in a row. &QL;

   Yet the anti-drug movement has never rallied to tell Americans
about the legalizers' identities and techniques. Washington and the
United Nations, including Arlacci, have even softened their
language _ such as not using the phrase ``drug war'' anymore. &QL;

   Washington's big new anti-drug ad campaign will be useful, but
not very, unless it not only urges parents to talk to children, but
parents to talk to other parents, about the legalizers, in or out
of camouflage. &QL;

   Surely it is time for the president to dissect America's
legalizers and publicly point the finger at them. If he is too
delicate, or politically fearful, the rest of us will have to do
the job of denying them acceptability or cover; it's worth the
space.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0247 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:50 ',
			header: '
A5272 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ELIMINATE-BAPTISTS-NY     06-11 0033
',
			slug: ' BC-ELIMINATE-BAPTISTS-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   (pr) &QL;

   &UR; EDITORS: &LR;

   BAPTISTS (Salt Lake City) will not move in tonight's New York
Times News Service file.

   N.Y.Times News Service, June 11.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   (pr) &QL;

   &UR; EDITORS: &LR;

   BAPTISTS (Salt Lake City) will not move in tonight's New York
Times News Service file.

   N.Y.Times News Service, June 11.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0248 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:52 ',
			header: '
A5275 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ELIMINATE-FBN-NFL-EUR     06-11 0036
',
			slug: ' BC-ELIMINATE-FBN-NFL-EUROPE-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   (pr) &QL;

   &UR; EDITORS: &LR;

   FBN-NFL-EUROPE (Frankfurt, Germany) will not move in tonight's
New York Times News Service file.

   N.Y.Times News Service, June 11.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   (pr) &QL;

   &UR; EDITORS: &LR;

   FBN-NFL-EUROPE (Frankfurt, Germany) will not move in tonight's
New York Times News Service file.

   N.Y.Times News Service, June 11.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0249 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:54 ',
			header: '
A5283 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-COLE-PORTER-TRIBUTE-N     06-11 0492
',
			slug: ' BC-COLE-PORTER-TRIBUTE-NYT ',
			headline: '
SINGERS REPRISE COLE PORTER'S PATHOS AND FUN
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ It usually takes a centennial for a Broadway composer
to be accorded the kind of attention that was lavished on Cole
Porter at Town Hall on Tuesday evening on the 107th anniversary of
his birth. But to his most ardent fans, Porter, who died in 1964,
wasn't just a great theater composer but a kindred spirit with
special knowledge about the ecstasy and absurdity of romantic love.
For those admirers, an annual consultation with the oracle is a
required rite.

   The event, a centerpiece of ``A Swell Party,'' a three-day
cabaret festival produced by the Mabel Mercer Foundation, had the
feel of a tribal gathering for those whom Kaye Ballard, one of many
celebrity guests, jovially described as being ``cursed with
taste.'' The nearly three-hour concert was also heavily laced with
show business nostalgia.

   Patricia Morison, who originated the role of Lili Vanessi in
``Kiss Me Kate,'' which opened on Broadway 50 years ago this
December, brought down the house with a quavering, heartfelt ``So
in Love,'' from that show and sang ``Wunderbar'' with the
insufferably hammy David Staller. And Gretchen Wyler, from the
original cast of Porter's last Broadway musical, ``Silk
Stockings,'' told the story of how at the last minute she ascended
from second understudy to opening night star. Swathed in bright red
ruffles, Ms. Wyler sang exuberant versions of ``Stereophonic
Sound'' (Porter's Hollywood answer to ``There's No Business Like
Show Business'') and ``Satin and Silk,'' an amusing ode to
underwear that still has enough racy life in it to be worthy of
Madonna.

   But the person who outshone everyone was the composer himself,
whose songs, despite their occasional flaunting of dated
references, still convey an incredible ebullience and erotic
energy. No one from the golden age of Broadway came close to Porter
in the acuteness with which he dissected human mating habits and
their accompanying obsessions. Elaine Stritch, who sang a wonderful
boozy version of ``Make It Another Old-Fashioned, Please,'' put it
perfectly when she described the essence of Porter as a mixture of
``pathos and fun.''

   The show's wistful high points included Susannah McCorkle's
exquisitely simple and sad ``Weren't We Fools'' and Abe Reybold's
intimate, destarched version of ``In the Still of the Night.''

   But high comedy ruled the evening. Steve Ross' robust
``Can-Can,'' Julie Wilson's ``Always True to You in My Fashion,''
Ms. Ballard's ``Down in the Depths on the 90th Floor'' (done as a
Mabel Mercer parody with rolled r's) and Sidney Myer's hilarious
``Nobody's Chasing Me'' (probably the funniest song ever written
about being a lonely wallflower in a madly lustful world where
``the sheep is chasing the shepherd'') helped give the evening a
fine champagne fizz.
',
			body: '


   (ja) 
 By STEPHEN HOLDEN    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ It usually takes a centennial for a Broadway composer
to be accorded the kind of attention that was lavished on Cole
Porter at Town Hall on Tuesday evening on the 107th anniversary of
his birth. But to his most ardent fans, Porter, who died in 1964,
wasn't just a great theater composer but a kindred spirit with
special knowledge about the ecstasy and absurdity of romantic love.
For those admirers, an annual consultation with the oracle is a
required rite.

   The event, a centerpiece of ``A Swell Party,'' a three-day
cabaret festival produced by the Mabel Mercer Foundation, had the
feel of a tribal gathering for those whom Kaye Ballard, one of many
celebrity guests, jovially described as being ``cursed with
taste.'' The nearly three-hour concert was also heavily laced with
show business nostalgia.

   Patricia Morison, who originated the role of Lili Vanessi in
``Kiss Me Kate,'' which opened on Broadway 50 years ago this
December, brought down the house with a quavering, heartfelt ``So
in Love,'' from that show and sang ``Wunderbar'' with the
insufferably hammy David Staller. And Gretchen Wyler, from the
original cast of Porter's last Broadway musical, ``Silk
Stockings,'' told the story of how at the last minute she ascended
from second understudy to opening night star. Swathed in bright red
ruffles, Ms. Wyler sang exuberant versions of ``Stereophonic
Sound'' (Porter's Hollywood answer to ``There's No Business Like
Show Business'') and ``Satin and Silk,'' an amusing ode to
underwear that still has enough racy life in it to be worthy of
Madonna.

   But the person who outshone everyone was the composer himself,
whose songs, despite their occasional flaunting of dated
references, still convey an incredible ebullience and erotic
energy. No one from the golden age of Broadway came close to Porter
in the acuteness with which he dissected human mating habits and
their accompanying obsessions. Elaine Stritch, who sang a wonderful
boozy version of ``Make It Another Old-Fashioned, Please,'' put it
perfectly when she described the essence of Porter as a mixture of
``pathos and fun.''

   The show's wistful high points included Susannah McCorkle's
exquisitely simple and sad ``Weren't We Fools'' and Abe Reybold's
intimate, destarched version of ``In the Still of the Night.''

   But high comedy ruled the evening. Steve Ross' robust
``Can-Can,'' Julie Wilson's ``Always True to You in My Fashion,''
Ms. Ballard's ``Down in the Depths on the 90th Floor'' (done as a
Mabel Mercer parody with rolled r's) and Sidney Myer's hilarious
``Nobody's Chasing Me'' (probably the funniest song ever written
about being a lonely wallflower in a madly lustful world where
``the sheep is chasing the shepherd'') helped give the evening a
fine champagne fizz.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0250 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:55 ',
			header: '
A5284 &Cx1f; tad-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-IOWA-BARR-COX &UR;  &UR; REP.BA     06-11 0747
',
			slug: ' BC-IOWA-BARR-COX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ For the past six months, Rep. Bob Barr has
repeatedly called for the impeachment of President Clinton. Even
when top Republican congressional leaders urged colleagues to avoid
mentioning the ``I word,'' the Georgian continued to make his case
on the television talk shows.

   But when Barr travels to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on Friday to attend
the state Republican Party's ``First in the Nation'' gala, the
second-term congressman plans to use the presidential setting to
unveil a message that is far broader in scope.

   As Barr put it in an interview Thursday, ``the primary thrust is
not impeachment, it's the need for accountability,'' which he said
is missing from the current White House.

   His message comes straight from his conversations with ordinary
Americans over the past few months on radio call-in shows and town
hall meetings across the country. ``From coast to coast, I have
heard people say, `give us someone who can give a voice to
integrity and accountability,' '' Barr said.

   While Barr dismisses the notion that he is actually running for
president, his message will touch on themes that sound typically
presidential to political scientists.

   Drug use, violent crime, and education are just a few of the
issues Barr wants to raise. In addition, he said, he wants to
discuss violations of the federal immigration laws and how ``people
who had no right to be U.S. citizens became citizens.''

   Just how this message will resonate among relatively liberal
Iowa voters remains to be seen. Barr will be joined at this
evening's event by other presidential hopefuls including magazine
publisher Steve Forbes; Lamar Alexander, the former governor of
Tennessee, and Jack Kemp, the 1996 GOP vice-presidential candidate.

   Many political experts see Iowa as a ``beauty contest'' of
sorts, a chance for potential candidates to preen in front of
voters in the state that will kick off the process of choosing
delegates to the 2000 Republican National Convention. If their
message catches fire, it could be a first step toward establishing
a presidential campaign committee.

   And this year is more important than years past, political
scientists say, because no candidate has emerged as a front-runner
as former Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole did in the 1996 election.

   ``It is an early place to test ideas,'' said Richard Fenno,
professor of politics at the University of Rochester. ``It's a
preliminary test flight for someone who has in the back of his mind
that he wants to go further in national politics. It's like putting
your toe in the water, but not the whole foot.''

   What image does Barr have in the general public?

   Political scientists said in interviews they saw a conservative
congressman from Georgia who wants to impeach the president. They
said they were surprised that someone with just two terms in
Congress would be on the campaign trail.

   ``I don't think he has much of an image in the populace outside
of his call for impeachment,'' said David Brady, a professor of
political science at Stanford University and author of a book on
the GOP. But that does not prevent Barr from scouting space on the
political landscape and using that one ideological issue to gain
notoriety, he said.

   ``Historically, if you are a nobody this is everything,'' Brady
said. Others, including Jimmy Carter, have used Iowa to catapult
themselves from oblivion to the top tier, particularly when there
is a wide-open field, he said.

   Arianna Huffington, a conservative commentator, said the
candidate with the best chance of succeeding among Republican
voters is the one who ``recognizes that both parties have betrayed
their constituents.'' America, she said, has become two nations:
one that has shared in the current economic boom, and another left
behind in poverty-stricken neighborhoods plagued by drugs, violence
and gangs.

   ``The Republicans are living up to their caricature as the party
of special interests,'' said Huffington, referring to a $50 billion
tax break for the tobacco companies that almost got through the
appropriations process last year and the recent passage of more
than $500 billion in transportation projects.

   ``What is Bob Barr going to run on? Impeachment?'' Huffington
asked.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
',
			body: '

     REP. BARR TO MARKET BROADER MESSAGE AT IOWA
PRESIDENTIAL FORUM
 &HT;     By REBECCA CARR 
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ For the past six months, Rep. Bob Barr has
repeatedly called for the impeachment of President Clinton. Even
when top Republican congressional leaders urged colleagues to avoid
mentioning the ``I word,'' the Georgian continued to make his case
on the television talk shows.

   But when Barr travels to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on Friday to attend
the state Republican Party's ``First in the Nation'' gala, the
second-term congressman plans to use the presidential setting to
unveil a message that is far broader in scope.

   As Barr put it in an interview Thursday, ``the primary thrust is
not impeachment, it's the need for accountability,'' which he said
is missing from the current White House.

   His message comes straight from his conversations with ordinary
Americans over the past few months on radio call-in shows and town
hall meetings across the country. ``From coast to coast, I have
heard people say, `give us someone who can give a voice to
integrity and accountability,' '' Barr said.

   While Barr dismisses the notion that he is actually running for
president, his message will touch on themes that sound typically
presidential to political scientists.

   Drug use, violent crime, and education are just a few of the
issues Barr wants to raise. In addition, he said, he wants to
discuss violations of the federal immigration laws and how ``people
who had no right to be U.S. citizens became citizens.''

   Just how this message will resonate among relatively liberal
Iowa voters remains to be seen. Barr will be joined at this
evening's event by other presidential hopefuls including magazine
publisher Steve Forbes; Lamar Alexander, the former governor of
Tennessee, and Jack Kemp, the 1996 GOP vice-presidential candidate.

   Many political experts see Iowa as a ``beauty contest'' of
sorts, a chance for potential candidates to preen in front of
voters in the state that will kick off the process of choosing
delegates to the 2000 Republican National Convention. If their
message catches fire, it could be a first step toward establishing
a presidential campaign committee.

   And this year is more important than years past, political
scientists say, because no candidate has emerged as a front-runner
as former Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole did in the 1996 election.

   ``It is an early place to test ideas,'' said Richard Fenno,
professor of politics at the University of Rochester. ``It's a
preliminary test flight for someone who has in the back of his mind
that he wants to go further in national politics. It's like putting
your toe in the water, but not the whole foot.''

   What image does Barr have in the general public?

   Political scientists said in interviews they saw a conservative
congressman from Georgia who wants to impeach the president. They
said they were surprised that someone with just two terms in
Congress would be on the campaign trail.

   ``I don't think he has much of an image in the populace outside
of his call for impeachment,'' said David Brady, a professor of
political science at Stanford University and author of a book on
the GOP. But that does not prevent Barr from scouting space on the
political landscape and using that one ideological issue to gain
notoriety, he said.

   ``Historically, if you are a nobody this is everything,'' Brady
said. Others, including Jimmy Carter, have used Iowa to catapult
themselves from oblivion to the top tier, particularly when there
is a wide-open field, he said.

   Arianna Huffington, a conservative commentator, said the
candidate with the best chance of succeeding among Republican
voters is the one who ``recognizes that both parties have betrayed
their constituents.'' America, she said, has become two nations:
one that has shared in the current economic boom, and another left
behind in poverty-stricken neighborhoods plagued by drugs, violence
and gangs.

   ``The Republicans are living up to their caricature as the party
of special interests,'' said Huffington, referring to a $50 billion
tax break for the tobacco companies that almost got through the
appropriations process last year and the recent passage of more
than $500 billion in transportation projects.

   ``What is Bob Barr going to run on? Impeachment?'' Huffington
asked.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0251 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 18:59 ',
			header: '
A5296 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BALLERINA-RETIRES-NYT     06-11 0606
',
			slug: ' BC-BALLERINA-RETIRES-NYT ',
			headline: '
BALLERINA NICHOL HLINKA TO RETIRE 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Nichol Hlinka never thought she would become a
dancer, much less a principal with the New York City Ballet, or
even a student at the School of American Ballet.

   For one thing, she was less than 5 feet tall when she was 13 and
auditioned for the school, which is affiliated with City Ballet.
Everyone knew that was too short for a dancer, especially one in a
company filled with skyscraper-size ballerinas. ``But they got very
excited when I started to jump,'' Ms. Hlinka recalled with a smile.

   Three years later, in 1975, she joined City Ballet. And she has
been soaring, spinning and speeding through a huge repertory of
roles ever since.

   ``Ms. Hlinka's formidable technique speaks for itself,'' Anna
Kisselgoff wrote in The New York Times in February, ``but her
artistry and musicality do not hurt.''

   Now, Ms. Hlinka, recently married to Robert Love, an editor at
Rolling Stone and a newly confirmed balletomane, has decided to
retire at 39. ``My repertory is really difficult,'' she said. ``I
don't believe my body can stand it much longer.''

   She plans to teach and continue choreographing, she said, and
hopes to restage ballets by George Balanchine. Ms. Hlinka will
dance her final performance with City Ballet on Sunday afternoon at
the New York State Theater, appearing in ``Tchaikovsky Pas de
Deux'' and ``Scotch Symphony,'' two Balanchine favorites.

   Though still tiny by City Ballet standards, Ms. Hlinka, who is 5
foot 3, has become a glittering mainstay of the company and one of
its most loved and admired dancers.

   ``She has challenged me, not only by raising technical standards
with every performance but also with the emotional truth she
presents onstage, which may be her greatest gift,'' Damian Woetzel,
a longtime partner and a virtuoso dancer himself, said in a recent
statement. ``Although Nichol has always treated me as her equal, I
have always felt merely good enough to be her consort.''

   Woetzel will perform with Ms. Hlinka on Sunday in ``Tchaikovsky
Pas de Deux.''

   ``I grew up with that ballet,'' Ms. Hlinka said the other day in
an interview in the cozy dressing room she shares with Helene
Alexopoulos. ``We watched from the wings every night when I was
young.'' She talked of seeing Peter Martins, now company director,
in a breakthrough performance in ``Tchaikovsky'' and appropriated
``a certain little movement'' that Suzanne Farrell did,
exquisitely, in it.

   Watching Patricia McBride in ``Scotch Symphony,'' Ms. Hlinka
said, she decided she wanted to dance the work at her retirement.
``There were a lot of rough times, there really were. But each time
I was about to leave the company, something pulled me back. And
then there were Mr. B.'s ballets. And Mr. B.''

   Balanchine looks back at her from a small photograph on her
mirror. Ms. Hlinka is one of the few dancers still active who knew
him.

   ``I'd stand in the wings, thinking of him, and realize that
Damian never got to meet him,'' she said. ``For those of us who
knew Mr. B. and learned from him, he's a daily part of our lives
and always will be. He not only gave me lessons for this theater
but for my life.

   ``As I'm moving toward this retirement, I'm realizing that he
said so many things about that. You start rehearsing a ballet, and
the partners, the performances, the memories come back. But I can
hear his voice. `You know, dear,' he'd say, `don't live in the
past.' I miss him right now. I would love him to be here for
this.''
',
			body: '


  (ja) 
 By JENNIFER DUNNING   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Nichol Hlinka never thought she would become a
dancer, much less a principal with the New York City Ballet, or
even a student at the School of American Ballet.

   For one thing, she was less than 5 feet tall when she was 13 and
auditioned for the school, which is affiliated with City Ballet.
Everyone knew that was too short for a dancer, especially one in a
company filled with skyscraper-size ballerinas. ``But they got very
excited when I started to jump,'' Ms. Hlinka recalled with a smile.

   Three years later, in 1975, she joined City Ballet. And she has
been soaring, spinning and speeding through a huge repertory of
roles ever since.

   ``Ms. Hlinka's formidable technique speaks for itself,'' Anna
Kisselgoff wrote in The New York Times in February, ``but her
artistry and musicality do not hurt.''

   Now, Ms. Hlinka, recently married to Robert Love, an editor at
Rolling Stone and a newly confirmed balletomane, has decided to
retire at 39. ``My repertory is really difficult,'' she said. ``I
don't believe my body can stand it much longer.''

   She plans to teach and continue choreographing, she said, and
hopes to restage ballets by George Balanchine. Ms. Hlinka will
dance her final performance with City Ballet on Sunday afternoon at
the New York State Theater, appearing in ``Tchaikovsky Pas de
Deux'' and ``Scotch Symphony,'' two Balanchine favorites.

   Though still tiny by City Ballet standards, Ms. Hlinka, who is 5
foot 3, has become a glittering mainstay of the company and one of
its most loved and admired dancers.

   ``She has challenged me, not only by raising technical standards
with every performance but also with the emotional truth she
presents onstage, which may be her greatest gift,'' Damian Woetzel,
a longtime partner and a virtuoso dancer himself, said in a recent
statement. ``Although Nichol has always treated me as her equal, I
have always felt merely good enough to be her consort.''

   Woetzel will perform with Ms. Hlinka on Sunday in ``Tchaikovsky
Pas de Deux.''

   ``I grew up with that ballet,'' Ms. Hlinka said the other day in
an interview in the cozy dressing room she shares with Helene
Alexopoulos. ``We watched from the wings every night when I was
young.'' She talked of seeing Peter Martins, now company director,
in a breakthrough performance in ``Tchaikovsky'' and appropriated
``a certain little movement'' that Suzanne Farrell did,
exquisitely, in it.

   Watching Patricia McBride in ``Scotch Symphony,'' Ms. Hlinka
said, she decided she wanted to dance the work at her retirement.
``There were a lot of rough times, there really were. But each time
I was about to leave the company, something pulled me back. And
then there were Mr. B.'s ballets. And Mr. B.''

   Balanchine looks back at her from a small photograph on her
mirror. Ms. Hlinka is one of the few dancers still active who knew
him.

   ``I'd stand in the wings, thinking of him, and realize that
Damian never got to meet him,'' she said. ``For those of us who
knew Mr. B. and learned from him, he's a daily part of our lives
and always will be. He not only gave me lessons for this theater
but for my life.

   ``As I'm moving toward this retirement, I'm realizing that he
said so many things about that. You start rehearsing a ballet, and
the partners, the performances, the memories come back. But I can
hear his voice. `You know, dear,' he'd say, `don't live in the
past.' I miss him right now. I would love him to be here for
this.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0252 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:01 ',
			header: '
A5297 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CLINTON-POLICY-HNS &LR;      06-11 0848
',
			slug: ' BC-CLINTON-POLICY-HNS ',
			headline: '
CLINTON DEFENDS UPCOMING TRIP TO CHINA 

',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Hoping to quiet his critics and reassure the
American people, President Clinton on Thursday defended his policy
of engagement with China as the strategy most likely to influence
the communist regime.

   Clinton, in an address to the National Geographic Society, spent
30 minutes outlining why he will visit China June 25 through July 3
and why critics who want him to cancel are wrong.

   The president will be the first U.S. leader to visit China since
the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre left hundreds of pro-democracy
demonstrators dead. Critics also charge that China made illegal
campaign donations and that Clinton improperly allowed a Democratic
donor to use Chinese missiles to launch a satellite.

   ``Seeking to isolate China will not free one more political
dissident, will not open one more church to those who wish to
worship, will do nothing to encourage China to live by the laws it
has written. Instead, it will limit our ability to advance human
rights and religious and political freedoms,'' Clinton said.

   ``I'm going because I think it's the right thing to do for our
country,'' the president said.

   But a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers continued to call for
Clinton to change his mind and criticized his decision to become
the first president to visit China since President Bush in February
1989.

   ``He's catered to them in every way. He's bowed to their every
whim,'' said Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., who has consistently
faulted the leader of her party on policies regarding Chinese
trade, human rights and nuclear proliferation.

   ``I believe that by any measure you can take, that the Clinton
policy has not been a success,'' Pelosi told reporters shortly
before Clinton spoke. ``The president is either in denial or
ill-informed about what's going on in China.''

   Sen. Tim Hutchinson, R-Ark., said, ``I'm not saying don't go,
I'm saying don't go now. There has never been a presidential trip
under the type of deep dark cloud that this president makes this
trip. With four Senate committees investigating technology
transfers (and) with a select committee of the House and the U.S.
Justice Department, this is the wrong time to take this trip.
Anything that comes out of it would be suspect,'' Hutchinson said.

   Clinton again defended his decision to grant a satellite launch
waiver to Loral Space &AMP; Communications Ltd., owned by a major
Democratic donor, and his decision to attend official welcoming
ceremonies at the Great Hall of the People at Tiananmen Square.

   Critics charge the administration granted Loral the waiver while
it was under investigation by the Justice Department for illegally
giving China information that could have improved its missile
technology.

   He said the waivers provide an incentive for China to observe
nonproliferation agreements and allow U.S. companies to meet their
launch demands. ``This policy clearly has served our national
interests,'' he said.

   The president did not mention the federal investigation into
whether China sought to influence the 1996 U.S. elections through
illegal campaign contributions.

   Public opinion polls indicate most Americans side with Clinton
on going to China. A CBS News/New York Times survey found 59
percent of those polled believe Clinton should go, although only 35
percent approve of the way he is dealing with the Asian giant.

   Clinton said he would press Chinese President Jiang Zemin on
human rights and democracy, adding ``the more we bring China into
the world, the more the world will bring freedom to China.''

   The president said he will go to Tiananmen Square and the Great
Hall of the People because that is where China conducts its
official ceremonies.

   ``We do not ignore the value of symbols. But, in the end, if the
choice is between making a symbolic point and making a real
difference, I choose making the difference,'' he said.

   Clinton cited China's importance in helping resolve the conflict
between India and Pakistan, both of whom are now nuclear powers. He
pointed to China's role in becoming ``a force for peace and
stability'' on the Korean Peninsula, where it is a party to peace
talks between North and South Korea.

   He praised China for its efforts to stabilize the Asian economic
crisis by resisting the temptation to devalue its currency and for
its contributions to rescue packages for other nations. China,
emerging as a transshipment point for drugs, next month will allow
the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency to open an office there.

   ``China will choose its own destiny, but we can influence that
choice by making the right choice ourselves _ working with China
where we can, dealing directly with our differences where we must.
Bringing China into the community of nations rather than trying to
shut it out is plainly the best way to advance both our interests
and our values,'' Clinton said.

   &QL; 
XXXX END OF STORY &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  By NANCY MATHIS 
c.1998 Houston Chronicle 

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Hoping to quiet his critics and reassure the
American people, President Clinton on Thursday defended his policy
of engagement with China as the strategy most likely to influence
the communist regime.

   Clinton, in an address to the National Geographic Society, spent
30 minutes outlining why he will visit China June 25 through July 3
and why critics who want him to cancel are wrong.

   The president will be the first U.S. leader to visit China since
the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre left hundreds of pro-democracy
demonstrators dead. Critics also charge that China made illegal
campaign donations and that Clinton improperly allowed a Democratic
donor to use Chinese missiles to launch a satellite.

   ``Seeking to isolate China will not free one more political
dissident, will not open one more church to those who wish to
worship, will do nothing to encourage China to live by the laws it
has written. Instead, it will limit our ability to advance human
rights and religious and political freedoms,'' Clinton said.

   ``I'm going because I think it's the right thing to do for our
country,'' the president said.

   But a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers continued to call for
Clinton to change his mind and criticized his decision to become
the first president to visit China since President Bush in February
1989.

   ``He's catered to them in every way. He's bowed to their every
whim,'' said Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., who has consistently
faulted the leader of her party on policies regarding Chinese
trade, human rights and nuclear proliferation.

   ``I believe that by any measure you can take, that the Clinton
policy has not been a success,'' Pelosi told reporters shortly
before Clinton spoke. ``The president is either in denial or
ill-informed about what's going on in China.''

   Sen. Tim Hutchinson, R-Ark., said, ``I'm not saying don't go,
I'm saying don't go now. There has never been a presidential trip
under the type of deep dark cloud that this president makes this
trip. With four Senate committees investigating technology
transfers (and) with a select committee of the House and the U.S.
Justice Department, this is the wrong time to take this trip.
Anything that comes out of it would be suspect,'' Hutchinson said.

   Clinton again defended his decision to grant a satellite launch
waiver to Loral Space &AMP; Communications Ltd., owned by a major
Democratic donor, and his decision to attend official welcoming
ceremonies at the Great Hall of the People at Tiananmen Square.

   Critics charge the administration granted Loral the waiver while
it was under investigation by the Justice Department for illegally
giving China information that could have improved its missile
technology.

   He said the waivers provide an incentive for China to observe
nonproliferation agreements and allow U.S. companies to meet their
launch demands. ``This policy clearly has served our national
interests,'' he said.

   The president did not mention the federal investigation into
whether China sought to influence the 1996 U.S. elections through
illegal campaign contributions.

   Public opinion polls indicate most Americans side with Clinton
on going to China. A CBS News/New York Times survey found 59
percent of those polled believe Clinton should go, although only 35
percent approve of the way he is dealing with the Asian giant.

   Clinton said he would press Chinese President Jiang Zemin on
human rights and democracy, adding ``the more we bring China into
the world, the more the world will bring freedom to China.''

   The president said he will go to Tiananmen Square and the Great
Hall of the People because that is where China conducts its
official ceremonies.

   ``We do not ignore the value of symbols. But, in the end, if the
choice is between making a symbolic point and making a real
difference, I choose making the difference,'' he said.

   Clinton cited China's importance in helping resolve the conflict
between India and Pakistan, both of whom are now nuclear powers. He
pointed to China's role in becoming ``a force for peace and
stability'' on the Korean Peninsula, where it is a party to peace
talks between North and South Korea.

   He praised China for its efforts to stabilize the Asian economic
crisis by resisting the temptation to devalue its currency and for
its contributions to rescue packages for other nations. China,
emerging as a transshipment point for drugs, next month will allow
the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency to open an office there.

   ``China will choose its own destiny, but we can influence that
choice by making the right choice ourselves _ working with China
where we can, dealing directly with our differences where we must.
Bringing China into the community of nations rather than trying to
shut it out is plainly the best way to advance both our interests
and our values,'' Clinton said.

   &QL; 
XXXX END OF STORY &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0253 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:01 ',
			header: '
A5298 &Cx1f; ttc-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-LADN-BUDGET &LR;      06-11 0099
',
			slug: ' BC-LADN-BUDGET ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following general
stories for use by NYTimes News Service clients, AMs and PMs of
Friday, June 12 and thereafter. For questions about stories,
contact Stewart Slavin at the Daily News, (818) 713-3701.

   GRAMMYS-LA (Los Angeles) _ Next year's Grammy Awards will return
to L.A.'s Shrine Auditorium, and Los Angeles is working to bring
the music industry's biggest night out back in the year 2000. By
Fred Shuster. (Will move in the ``n'' California news file and the
``a'' national news file.)
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following general
stories for use by NYTimes News Service clients, AMs and PMs of
Friday, June 12 and thereafter. For questions about stories,
contact Stewart Slavin at the Daily News, (818) 713-3701.

   GRAMMYS-LA (Los Angeles) _ Next year's Grammy Awards will return
to L.A.'s Shrine Auditorium, and Los Angeles is working to bring
the music industry's biggest night out back in the year 2000. By
Fred Shuster. (Will move in the ``n'' California news file and the
``a'' national news file.)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0254 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:02 ',
			header: '
A5299 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PERSONAL-FINANCE-ADVI     06-11 1423
',
			slug: ' BC-PERSONAL-FINANCE-ADVISORY-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   The New York Times News Service calls your attention to the
following personal finance stories for use this weekend and beyond.

   The stories, which moved within the last week, are from The New
York Times (NYT), The Boston Globe (BOS) and Bloomberg News
(BLOOM).

   Photos, where indicated, have been sent to NYT photo clients.
Graphics have been sent to NYT graphics clients. Nonclients can
make individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204.

   For retransmissions of these stories, please call 212-556-1927.

   &UR; INVESTING &LR;

   FLOW-OF-FUNDS-BLOOM (Boston) _ Investors are taught to think
long-term when it comes to buying stocks: Put money into your
mutual funds regularly and hold on. Too bad the professional
stock-pickers who oversee the investments aren't that patient. By
Tim Quinson.

   MUTUAL-FUNDS-BLOOM (New York) _ U.S. investors reduced their
stock mutual fund purchases by about 23 percent in May, a month
when the Standard &AMP; Poor's 500 Index lost ground. By Tim Quinson.

   MUTFUNDS-DIRECTORS-NYT (Undated) _ What is a mutual fund
director to do? Lately, when independent directors have stood up to
fund managers, they've gotten their ears boxed. Rarely, if ever,
since the current system of mutual fund oversight was laid out in
the Investment Company Act of 1940, have fund directors been under
fire on so many fronts at once. By Edward Wyatt.

   INVEST-SPRINT (Undated) _ Investors who wonder whether Sprint
has stolen a march on other telecom stocks should be asking,
``Where's the beef?'' By Seth Schiesel.

   INVEST-RUSSIA (Undated) _ Most investors aren't much exposed to
Russia's troubles, but nearly everybody has a stake in the one
reliable source of cash left to the hard-pressed government: Oil
and gas. What does the continuing &QL; 
turmoil in Moscow portend for energy markets? By Agis Salpukas.

   INVEST-IPO-SEARCH-FIRMS (Undated) _ Executive search firms are
coming to market in a rush, but they are an odd thing to own stock
in. By Sana Siwolop.

   INVEST-GHOUL-POOL (Undated) _ You've heard about the Monday
morning football pool? The baseball Rotisserie league? Welcome to
the dead _ or ghoul _ pool, the funereal game of wagering on when
celebrities will meet their demise. By Laura Petersen-Pietersen.

   MUTFUND-CALVERT (Undated) _ A different take on emerging
markets: Calvert, tells us which countries have been bad,
especially those detonating nuclear devices. By Carole Gould.

   MUTFUND-FEES (Undated) _ Redemption fees, long an afterthought
for investors, are developing nastier bites. By Ann Topkis.

   MUTFUND-DREYFUS (Undated) _ Dreyfus tries gingerly to extract
its funds from some big, troublesome bets on illiquid stocks. By
Georges Morgenson.

   CREDIT-SUISSE-WARBURG-PINCUS-BLOOM (Zurich) _ Credit Suisse
Group said it's teaming with New York-based Warburg Pincus Asset
Management in an agreement that calls for the firms to market each
other's investment funds on several continents. By Tim Quinson and
Tavia Grant.

   INVESTORS-HOMEWORK-BLOOM (Denver) _ U.S. workers, saving for
retirement, need to do a better job of studying investment options
than ever before, the chairman of the Securities Industry
Association said. By Jeanie Stokes.

   EXCHANGE-LISTED-BONDS-BLOOM (New York) _ Individuals looking for
higher yields than Treasury bonds or corporate bond funds can turn
to a growing number of utility bonds listed in the stock tables on
the New York Stock Exchange. By Wes Goodman.

   OVERSEAS-REITS-BLOOM (New York) _ U.S. real estate investment
trusts like Simon DeBartolo Group and Mills Corp. are looking
overseas for properties and partners as a strong U.S. economy
propels real estate prices higher here. By Robert Burgess.

   LEHMAN-BROTHERS-STOCK-BLOOM (New York) _ Lehman Brothers
Holdings, a laggard when it was spun off by American Express four
years ago, is the best-performing stock among big investment banks
this year. By Monique Wise with David Callaway and Ben Wootliff.

   DORFMAN-PROFIT-SLOWDOWN-BLOOM (Boston) _ Investors ought to be
asking what will happen to the stock market if corporate profits
fall this year after rising for the past eight years. By John
Dorfman.

   CHARLES-SCHWAB-SPOTLIGHT-BLOOM (San Francisco) _ For
shareholders of Charles Schwab, the nation's largest discount
brokerage, 1998 has been a year to forget as its stock has fallen
about 15 percent. By Jon Friedman and Monique Wise.

   LATIN-MARKETS-BLOOM (Miami) _ Populist presidential candidates
in Venezuela, Brazil and Colombia have unsettled investors, who're
wondering whether Latin American governments will press ahead with
economic reforms. 900. By Leslie Hillman.

   &UR; COLUMNS &LR;

   YIP-COLUMN-HNS (Undated) _ Direct investment programs, which
allow small investors to buy stock directly from a company for
little or no fees, have been a popular option. But the programs,
which include dividend reinvestment plans, have lost some of their
shine because many companies have started charging when they've
added features or created a new program. By Pamela Yip.

   FINANCE-HOOKER (Undated) _ Is it better to sell the condo or
rent it out. By Kenneth Hooker.

   FINANCE-HOOKER-BOS (Undated) _ You're off to a good start in
planning for retirement, and a lower-paying job won't slow you down
too much. By Kenneth Hooker.

   SUSAN-ANTILLA-COLUMN-BLOOM (New York) _ The flea market of
cyberspace presents bigger challenges than the sidewalk bazaar
browser faces. With public relations companies increasingly putting
up Web pages that tout their clients or their personal investments,
the risk of falling for the wrong vendor is higher than ever.
Commentary. By Susan Antilla.

   &UR; CONSUMER NEWS &LR;

   SPEND-ROTH-IRA (Undated) _ Convert your IRA to a tax-free Roth
IRA, the ads scream. But how much extra money will you have? T.
Rowe Price, Fidelity, Strong Mutual Funds, and on and on all come
up with different numbers. We do the math right and show readers
how to do the same. By David Cay Johnston.

   MARRIAGE-TAX-REVIEW-NYT _ Congress is well on its way towards
overhauling the tax-law provisions that push many married couples
into a higher tax bracket than they would be in if they were
single. By Richard W. Stevenson.

   CONSUMERWATCH-COX (Atlanta) _ Most of us know there's ``no such
thing as a free lunch'' _ but many people don't understand that
usually there's ``no such thing as a free vacation.''
Travel-related fraud costs consumers about $12 billion annually,
according to the Federal Trade Commission, which reports that
complaints about such fraud rank among the top five highest it
receives annually.

   MONEYTALK-COX (Atlanta) _ Can you ever afford to retire? More
and more people are worrying about just that question. One out of
three working people think the answer is no. But, it is important
to remember a couple of things ...

   CONSUMER-COLUMN-COX _ Information on shredded dollars, the Salt
Lake City Olympics, Texas loan laws, baby carriage wheels, and
more. Weekly consumer column from Austin.

   BIZ-BOOKS-TEX (Undated) _ Gorillas and monkeys, kings and serfs,
tornado warnings and terrain mapping _ all could be elements of a
new Jumanji game. But instead they are descriptive terms for a hot,
bestselling investment book, ``The Gorilla Game: An Investor's
Guide to Picking Winners in High Technology'' By Teresa &QL; 
McUsic.

   PERSONAL-WEALTH-INSURANCE-BLOOM (New York) _ Sales of long-term
care insurance are growing by about 25 percent a year, as aging
baby boomers learn from the experiences of their parents. By Ted
Hampton.

   PERSONAL-WEALTH-INSURANCE-BLOOM (New York) _ Sales of long-term
care insurance are growing by about 25 percent a year, as aging
baby boomers learn from the experiences of their parents. By Ted
Hampton.

   INDEX-FUNDS-BLOOM (Boston) _ About $140 of every $1,000 invested
in U.S. stock funds is going to funds that mimic the Standard &AMP;
Poor's 500 Index. That's up from $50 of every $1,000 invested in
stock funds as recently as 1995. By Tim Quinson.

   TAKING-STOCK-BLOOM (New York) _ U.S. corporate profits may not
be in as much jeopardy as the headlines suggest these days. By Hal
Paul.

   FIDELITY-REPORT-CARD-BLOOM (Boston) _ It's a mixed bag so far
this year for Fidelity Investments' biggest equity mutual funds. By
Tim Quinson.

   &QL;
',
			body: '

  
 ATTENTION: Managing editors, business editors, weekend editors 

',
			paragraphs: '
   The New York Times News Service calls your attention to the
following personal finance stories for use this weekend and beyond.

   The stories, which moved within the last week, are from The New
York Times (NYT), The Boston Globe (BOS) and Bloomberg News
(BLOOM).

   Photos, where indicated, have been sent to NYT photo clients.
Graphics have been sent to NYT graphics clients. Nonclients can
make individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204.

   For retransmissions of these stories, please call 212-556-1927.

   &UR; INVESTING &LR;

   FLOW-OF-FUNDS-BLOOM (Boston) _ Investors are taught to think
long-term when it comes to buying stocks: Put money into your
mutual funds regularly and hold on. Too bad the professional
stock-pickers who oversee the investments aren't that patient. By
Tim Quinson.

   MUTUAL-FUNDS-BLOOM (New York) _ U.S. investors reduced their
stock mutual fund purchases by about 23 percent in May, a month
when the Standard &AMP; Poor's 500 Index lost ground. By Tim Quinson.

   MUTFUNDS-DIRECTORS-NYT (Undated) _ What is a mutual fund
director to do? Lately, when independent directors have stood up to
fund managers, they've gotten their ears boxed. Rarely, if ever,
since the current system of mutual fund oversight was laid out in
the Investment Company Act of 1940, have fund directors been under
fire on so many fronts at once. By Edward Wyatt.

   INVEST-SPRINT (Undated) _ Investors who wonder whether Sprint
has stolen a march on other telecom stocks should be asking,
``Where's the beef?'' By Seth Schiesel.

   INVEST-RUSSIA (Undated) _ Most investors aren't much exposed to
Russia's troubles, but nearly everybody has a stake in the one
reliable source of cash left to the hard-pressed government: Oil
and gas. What does the continuing &QL; 
turmoil in Moscow portend for energy markets? By Agis Salpukas.

   INVEST-IPO-SEARCH-FIRMS (Undated) _ Executive search firms are
coming to market in a rush, but they are an odd thing to own stock
in. By Sana Siwolop.

   INVEST-GHOUL-POOL (Undated) _ You've heard about the Monday
morning football pool? The baseball Rotisserie league? Welcome to
the dead _ or ghoul _ pool, the funereal game of wagering on when
celebrities will meet their demise. By Laura Petersen-Pietersen.

   MUTFUND-CALVERT (Undated) _ A different take on emerging
markets: Calvert, tells us which countries have been bad,
especially those detonating nuclear devices. By Carole Gould.

   MUTFUND-FEES (Undated) _ Redemption fees, long an afterthought
for investors, are developing nastier bites. By Ann Topkis.

   MUTFUND-DREYFUS (Undated) _ Dreyfus tries gingerly to extract
its funds from some big, troublesome bets on illiquid stocks. By
Georges Morgenson.

   CREDIT-SUISSE-WARBURG-PINCUS-BLOOM (Zurich) _ Credit Suisse
Group said it's teaming with New York-based Warburg Pincus Asset
Management in an agreement that calls for the firms to market each
other's investment funds on several continents. By Tim Quinson and
Tavia Grant.

   INVESTORS-HOMEWORK-BLOOM (Denver) _ U.S. workers, saving for
retirement, need to do a better job of studying investment options
than ever before, the chairman of the Securities Industry
Association said. By Jeanie Stokes.

   EXCHANGE-LISTED-BONDS-BLOOM (New York) _ Individuals looking for
higher yields than Treasury bonds or corporate bond funds can turn
to a growing number of utility bonds listed in the stock tables on
the New York Stock Exchange. By Wes Goodman.

   OVERSEAS-REITS-BLOOM (New York) _ U.S. real estate investment
trusts like Simon DeBartolo Group and Mills Corp. are looking
overseas for properties and partners as a strong U.S. economy
propels real estate prices higher here. By Robert Burgess.

   LEHMAN-BROTHERS-STOCK-BLOOM (New York) _ Lehman Brothers
Holdings, a laggard when it was spun off by American Express four
years ago, is the best-performing stock among big investment banks
this year. By Monique Wise with David Callaway and Ben Wootliff.

   DORFMAN-PROFIT-SLOWDOWN-BLOOM (Boston) _ Investors ought to be
asking what will happen to the stock market if corporate profits
fall this year after rising for the past eight years. By John
Dorfman.

   CHARLES-SCHWAB-SPOTLIGHT-BLOOM (San Francisco) _ For
shareholders of Charles Schwab, the nation's largest discount
brokerage, 1998 has been a year to forget as its stock has fallen
about 15 percent. By Jon Friedman and Monique Wise.

   LATIN-MARKETS-BLOOM (Miami) _ Populist presidential candidates
in Venezuela, Brazil and Colombia have unsettled investors, who're
wondering whether Latin American governments will press ahead with
economic reforms. 900. By Leslie Hillman.

   &UR; COLUMNS &LR;

   YIP-COLUMN-HNS (Undated) _ Direct investment programs, which
allow small investors to buy stock directly from a company for
little or no fees, have been a popular option. But the programs,
which include dividend reinvestment plans, have lost some of their
shine because many companies have started charging when they've
added features or created a new program. By Pamela Yip.

   FINANCE-HOOKER (Undated) _ Is it better to sell the condo or
rent it out. By Kenneth Hooker.

   FINANCE-HOOKER-BOS (Undated) _ You're off to a good start in
planning for retirement, and a lower-paying job won't slow you down
too much. By Kenneth Hooker.

   SUSAN-ANTILLA-COLUMN-BLOOM (New York) _ The flea market of
cyberspace presents bigger challenges than the sidewalk bazaar
browser faces. With public relations companies increasingly putting
up Web pages that tout their clients or their personal investments,
the risk of falling for the wrong vendor is higher than ever.
Commentary. By Susan Antilla.

   &UR; CONSUMER NEWS &LR;

   SPEND-ROTH-IRA (Undated) _ Convert your IRA to a tax-free Roth
IRA, the ads scream. But how much extra money will you have? T.
Rowe Price, Fidelity, Strong Mutual Funds, and on and on all come
up with different numbers. We do the math right and show readers
how to do the same. By David Cay Johnston.

   MARRIAGE-TAX-REVIEW-NYT _ Congress is well on its way towards
overhauling the tax-law provisions that push many married couples
into a higher tax bracket than they would be in if they were
single. By Richard W. Stevenson.

   CONSUMERWATCH-COX (Atlanta) _ Most of us know there's ``no such
thing as a free lunch'' _ but many people don't understand that
usually there's ``no such thing as a free vacation.''
Travel-related fraud costs consumers about $12 billion annually,
according to the Federal Trade Commission, which reports that
complaints about such fraud rank among the top five highest it
receives annually.

   MONEYTALK-COX (Atlanta) _ Can you ever afford to retire? More
and more people are worrying about just that question. One out of
three working people think the answer is no. But, it is important
to remember a couple of things ...

   CONSUMER-COLUMN-COX _ Information on shredded dollars, the Salt
Lake City Olympics, Texas loan laws, baby carriage wheels, and
more. Weekly consumer column from Austin.

   BIZ-BOOKS-TEX (Undated) _ Gorillas and monkeys, kings and serfs,
tornado warnings and terrain mapping _ all could be elements of a
new Jumanji game. But instead they are descriptive terms for a hot,
bestselling investment book, ``The Gorilla Game: An Investor's
Guide to Picking Winners in High Technology'' By Teresa &QL; 
McUsic.

   PERSONAL-WEALTH-INSURANCE-BLOOM (New York) _ Sales of long-term
care insurance are growing by about 25 percent a year, as aging
baby boomers learn from the experiences of their parents. By Ted
Hampton.

   PERSONAL-WEALTH-INSURANCE-BLOOM (New York) _ Sales of long-term
care insurance are growing by about 25 percent a year, as aging
baby boomers learn from the experiences of their parents. By Ted
Hampton.

   INDEX-FUNDS-BLOOM (Boston) _ About $140 of every $1,000 invested
in U.S. stock funds is going to funds that mimic the Standard &AMP;
Poor's 500 Index. That's up from $50 of every $1,000 invested in
stock funds as recently as 1995. By Tim Quinson.

   TAKING-STOCK-BLOOM (New York) _ U.S. corporate profits may not
be in as much jeopardy as the headlines suggest these days. By Hal
Paul.

   FIDELITY-REPORT-CARD-BLOOM (Boston) _ It's a mixed bag so far
this year for Fidelity Investments' biggest equity mutual funds. By
Tim Quinson.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0255 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:04 ',
			header: '
A5300 &Cx1f; tad-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TOBACCO-COX &UR;  &UR; SENATEAG     06-11 0476
',
			slug: ' BC-TOBACCO-COX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ For the second time in three weeks, the Senate
refused Thursday to limit attorneys' fees in tobacco lawsuits
stemming either from the proposed national agreement or from state
cases.

   The 50-45 vote came on a motion to table an amendment by Sen.
Lauch Faircloth, R-N.C., to limit attorneys fees to $1,000 an hour
in class-action tobacco cases. Three weeks ago, the Senate rejected
a similar amendment that would have put the limit at $250 an hour.

   Earlier in the day, the Senate agreed to earmark one-fourth of
the money each state would receive under the national tobacco bill
to be used for child care development programs that would include
anti-smoking campaigns. An effort to table that proposal failed,
66-33.

   Also Thursday, Democrats failed for the third time in as many
days to curtail amendments to the tobacco vote and force a final
vote in the near future. The 56-43 vote was 17 fewer than the 60
needed to invoke cloture and cut off debate.

   After a week that began with Senate leaders pronouncing the
tobacco bill virtually dead, momentum seemed to be swinging toward
a final vote next week. The bill which would raise $516 billion
over 25 years and raise cigarette prices by $1.10 a pack.

   The Senate debate on restricting attorneys' fees followed the
same lines _ and often with the same arguments _ as the one that
took place three weeks ago.

   Once again Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., quoted from an ABC-TV
``20/20'' news program last year in which Palm Beach, Fla.,
attorney Robert Montgomery was featured as a lawyer who stood to
make millions from Florida's $11 billion settlement with cigarette
makers.

   Montgomery was again depicted as enjoying a lavish lifestyle
that included imported Rolls-Royce and Bentley automobiles and a
driving range from which he smacked golf balls into the ocean.

   ``Money paid to these lawyers is money not available to
children, to anti-smoking programs in America,'' Sessions said.
``It's simply more money to attorneys.''

   Montgomery, who three weeks ago defended his right to the
payments and who has indicated he planned to give most of his share
to charity, could not be reached for comment.

   Again Thursday, Faircloth called attention to Hugh Rodham _ the
brother of First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton _ one of 65 lawyers
who brought a class-action lawsuit in Louisiana in 1994.

   Drawing on a Wall Street Journal columnist's estimate of how
much each of those attorneys would make from the case, Faircloth
dubbed Rodham the $50 million man and argued that he hadn't done
enough work to earn the fee.

   Rodham could not be reached for comment.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
',
			body: '

     SENATE AGAIN REJECTS LIMIT ON ATTORNEYS FEES IN
TOBACCO CASES
 &HT;     By LARRY LIPMAN 
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ For the second time in three weeks, the Senate
refused Thursday to limit attorneys' fees in tobacco lawsuits
stemming either from the proposed national agreement or from state
cases.

   The 50-45 vote came on a motion to table an amendment by Sen.
Lauch Faircloth, R-N.C., to limit attorneys fees to $1,000 an hour
in class-action tobacco cases. Three weeks ago, the Senate rejected
a similar amendment that would have put the limit at $250 an hour.

   Earlier in the day, the Senate agreed to earmark one-fourth of
the money each state would receive under the national tobacco bill
to be used for child care development programs that would include
anti-smoking campaigns. An effort to table that proposal failed,
66-33.

   Also Thursday, Democrats failed for the third time in as many
days to curtail amendments to the tobacco vote and force a final
vote in the near future. The 56-43 vote was 17 fewer than the 60
needed to invoke cloture and cut off debate.

   After a week that began with Senate leaders pronouncing the
tobacco bill virtually dead, momentum seemed to be swinging toward
a final vote next week. The bill which would raise $516 billion
over 25 years and raise cigarette prices by $1.10 a pack.

   The Senate debate on restricting attorneys' fees followed the
same lines _ and often with the same arguments _ as the one that
took place three weeks ago.

   Once again Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., quoted from an ABC-TV
``20/20'' news program last year in which Palm Beach, Fla.,
attorney Robert Montgomery was featured as a lawyer who stood to
make millions from Florida's $11 billion settlement with cigarette
makers.

   Montgomery was again depicted as enjoying a lavish lifestyle
that included imported Rolls-Royce and Bentley automobiles and a
driving range from which he smacked golf balls into the ocean.

   ``Money paid to these lawyers is money not available to
children, to anti-smoking programs in America,'' Sessions said.
``It's simply more money to attorneys.''

   Montgomery, who three weeks ago defended his right to the
payments and who has indicated he planned to give most of his share
to charity, could not be reached for comment.

   Again Thursday, Faircloth called attention to Hugh Rodham _ the
brother of First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton _ one of 65 lawyers
who brought a class-action lawsuit in Louisiana in 1994.

   Drawing on a Wall Street Journal columnist's estimate of how
much each of those attorneys would make from the case, Faircloth
dubbed Rodham the $50 million man and argued that he hadn't done
enough work to earn the fee.

   Rodham could not be reached for comment.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0256 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:04 ',
			header: '
A5301 &Cx1f; ttx-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HEALTH-POIROT-COLUMN-     06-11 0634
',
			slug: ' BC-HEALTH-POIROT-COLUMN-TEX ',
			headline: '
17 YEARS LATER, `MIRACLE BABY' GOING STRONG
',
			trailer: '
   Brian Black's grandfather still refers to him as ``our miracle
baby,'' even though Brian now is 19.

   At age 2, he was so critically ill that even nurses who deal
with medical marvels on a routine basis, called his recovery ``a
very rare kind of triumph.''

   One nurse I interviewed for a news story at the time Brian left
the old Fort Worth Children's Hospital said, ``It's been a real
choker to everybody here _ to be that near death and come out that
well.''

   I don't remember her name. She didn't want to be quoted by name,
but I thought she would want to know that Brian graduated from
Granbury High School on May 29, and is going to Midwestern State
University in Wichita Falls to study mass communications and
marketing with plans to become a church youth minister.

   Music is his first love, says his mother, Pam Black. He has sung
with the award-winning Granbury High School choir for four years,
including a performance in Carnegie Hall. He also sang in the
barbershop quartet in his high school production of ``Music Man,''
and he sings in the youth choir at Acton Baptist Church.

   Seventeen years ago, Brian didn't have the heart to sustain
life, much less to sing.

   He played hard like any other 2-year-old, but he huffed and
puffed a lot more. He had to rest often. His fingers sometimes
turned purple, his toes and lips blue.

   He had undergone surgery when he was 4 days old to bypass an
obstruction in the blood flow to his lungs, but the obstruction
wasn't the only problem.

   Brian was born with a three-chambered heart. He did not have a
right ventricle. As he grew, it became more and more difficult for
his seriously defective heart to do all the pumping demanded to get
oxygen-depleted blood into his lungs and oxygen-rich blood back out
to the rest of his body.

   His family chose a surgical procedure to patch the earlier shunt
and to rebuild his heart so that the right atrium could help
channel blood where it needed to go. The surgery was considered
very new and very risky 17 years ago. Only two patients had
undergone the procedure here. They both died.

   Brian's family knew that surgery might end his short life, but
they also knew it was his only hope for a full and normal life.
They had thousands praying.

   Doctors did the surgery at Harris Methodist Fort Worth and moved
Brian to Children's when he got out of intensive care.

   ``What we actually have is a malformed heart that's been patched
and put back together,'' one of his doctors said when Brian went
home. ``There are scars and stitches and plastic involved. Until
the patch holds 50 years and the heart functions well, we have to
be cautious in our optimism. There's no long-term history of how
these hearts are going to hold up.''

   Over the years, Brian has been in and out of the hospital
several times, and for the past four years he has taken medication
to keep his heart from racing abnormally, but he says he can do
just about anything he really wants, and right now he wants to go
to college.

   ``I know it was the right decision,'' Brian says. ``Lately, I've
felt real good. The medications I take work, and I'm just thankful
to all those doctors and nurses and my family. I'm ready. I've been
through a lot, but I'm ready to see whatever the world has to bring
on.''

   Brian's grandfather, Walter Fletcher, called the day before
graduation to share the news. I thought you might like to know,
too.

   (Carolyn Poirot writes on health issues for the Fort Worth
Star-Telegram. Call her at (817) 390-7687. Visit the
Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web:
www.star-telegram.com)
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By CAROLYN POIROT 
c.1998 Fort Worth Star-Telegram 

',
			paragraphs: '
   Brian Black's grandfather still refers to him as ``our miracle
baby,'' even though Brian now is 19.

   At age 2, he was so critically ill that even nurses who deal
with medical marvels on a routine basis, called his recovery ``a
very rare kind of triumph.''

   One nurse I interviewed for a news story at the time Brian left
the old Fort Worth Children's Hospital said, ``It's been a real
choker to everybody here _ to be that near death and come out that
well.''

   I don't remember her name. She didn't want to be quoted by name,
but I thought she would want to know that Brian graduated from
Granbury High School on May 29, and is going to Midwestern State
University in Wichita Falls to study mass communications and
marketing with plans to become a church youth minister.

   Music is his first love, says his mother, Pam Black. He has sung
with the award-winning Granbury High School choir for four years,
including a performance in Carnegie Hall. He also sang in the
barbershop quartet in his high school production of ``Music Man,''
and he sings in the youth choir at Acton Baptist Church.

   Seventeen years ago, Brian didn't have the heart to sustain
life, much less to sing.

   He played hard like any other 2-year-old, but he huffed and
puffed a lot more. He had to rest often. His fingers sometimes
turned purple, his toes and lips blue.

   He had undergone surgery when he was 4 days old to bypass an
obstruction in the blood flow to his lungs, but the obstruction
wasn't the only problem.

   Brian was born with a three-chambered heart. He did not have a
right ventricle. As he grew, it became more and more difficult for
his seriously defective heart to do all the pumping demanded to get
oxygen-depleted blood into his lungs and oxygen-rich blood back out
to the rest of his body.

   His family chose a surgical procedure to patch the earlier shunt
and to rebuild his heart so that the right atrium could help
channel blood where it needed to go. The surgery was considered
very new and very risky 17 years ago. Only two patients had
undergone the procedure here. They both died.

   Brian's family knew that surgery might end his short life, but
they also knew it was his only hope for a full and normal life.
They had thousands praying.

   Doctors did the surgery at Harris Methodist Fort Worth and moved
Brian to Children's when he got out of intensive care.

   ``What we actually have is a malformed heart that's been patched
and put back together,'' one of his doctors said when Brian went
home. ``There are scars and stitches and plastic involved. Until
the patch holds 50 years and the heart functions well, we have to
be cautious in our optimism. There's no long-term history of how
these hearts are going to hold up.''

   Over the years, Brian has been in and out of the hospital
several times, and for the past four years he has taken medication
to keep his heart from racing abnormally, but he says he can do
just about anything he really wants, and right now he wants to go
to college.

   ``I know it was the right decision,'' Brian says. ``Lately, I've
felt real good. The medications I take work, and I'm just thankful
to all those doctors and nurses and my family. I'm ready. I've been
through a lot, but I'm ready to see whatever the world has to bring
on.''

   Brian's grandfather, Walter Fletcher, called the day before
graduation to share the news. I thought you might like to know,
too.

   (Carolyn Poirot writes on health issues for the Fort Worth
Star-Telegram. Call her at (817) 390-7687. Visit the
Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web:
www.star-telegram.com)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0257 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:06 ',
			header: '
A5302 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CALIF-IMPRESSIONIST-A     06-11 1016
',
			slug: ' BC-CALIF-IMPRESSIONIST-ART-REVIEW-500&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
ART REVIEW: CALIFORNIA'S ANSWER TO IMPRESSIONISM 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ There are two immediate points to be made about the
show ``All Things Bright and Beautiful'' at the National Academy
Museum: It will satiate you with lush California scenery, and it
will tell you more than you want to know about the insipid regional
school known as California Impressionism.

   In full stride from around the turn of the century to the
mid-1920s, the artists of this group produced sun-drenched
treescapes, rockscapes, seascapes, mountainscapes, flowerscapes and
views of run-down old mission buildings, with little evidence in
their work of people or urban squalor.

   Their names _ Maurice Braun, Alson Clark, Armin Hansen, Anna
Hills, Hanson Puthuff, Joseph Raphael, Granville Redmond, Guy Rose,
Elmer Wachtel, Marion Kavanagh Wachtel and William Wendt, to
mention more than a few _ do not ring many bells in the East, and
there's a reason. Their work was less varied, less au courant and
even less adventurous than that of Childe Hassam, Thomas W. Dewing,
J. Alden Weir and other members of The Ten, the leading
Impressionists in New York. If you think of the California
Impressionists as ``pleasant'' painters, whose canvases are based
on the French school but lack its snap and sparkle, you've got the
idea.

   The Irvine Museum of Irvine, Calif., founded in 1992 by Joan
Irvine Smith of the land-rich California family, specializes in
this particular breed of Impressionism.

   ``All Things Bright and Beautiful,'' a selection from the
Irvine's holdings, appears along with paintings chosen from the
East Coast collections of and Mrs. Paul Bagley and and Mrs. Thomas
B. Stiles II. Curated by William H. Gerdts, a leading scholar in
the field, ``All Things'' is a big show, with more than 80
paintings by 45 artists. Technically, many of these artists are
very proficient. It's their relentless blandness that palls.

   Though by no means a cohesive group, the Californians _ ranging
from San Diego to San Francisco _ are lumped together as
Impressionists by virtue of their affinity for plein-air painting
and the clear, intense California light that suffuses their
canvases, captured in bright colors laid on with a fairly loose
brush.

   Admirers of Monet, some of them _ notably the prolific Guy Rose
(1867-1925), who is represented by no less than eight paintings in
the show _ even spent time in the American artists' colony around
Giverny, Monet's home outside Paris.

   Rose, one of the few California-born artists in the group, is
regarded as the state's leading Impressionist. And in this context,
his work stands out. He favored rock-and-seascapes, but
particularly impressive is his large ``Laguna Eucalyptus'' of 1916.
(This tree was so trite a subject among California painters that
their work was sometimes referred to as the ``eucalyptus school.'')
The painting, in unusually quiet colors, depicts a line of
delicately rendered trees in muted greens, grays and blues, their
umbrella-like tops reaching into a sky of puffy clouds.

   Another leading light was William Wendt (1865-1946), known by
the end of his career as the painter laureate of California. A
German emigre transplanted from Chicago to Los Angeles, he regarded
nature as a provider of spiritual as well as earthly bounties, and
California the most bounteous state of all.

   Of the six Wendts in the show, the most impressive is ``There is
No Solitude, Even in Nature,'' painted in 1906, the year he arrived
in Los Angeles. A view of the Laguna Canyon in golden sunlight,
whose approach owes more to Cezanne than to Monet, its broad, open
expanse of rocky outcroppings looks toward a distant mountain.

   An offbeat night scene, unusual in the daylight purlieus of
Impressionism, and the only one in the show, is the work of
Granville Redmond (1871-1935), who at different times worked in San
Francisco and Los Angeles. ``Nocturne'' is an undated shore view,
so steeped in deep, nuanced blue-green that the shape of a
low-lying hill and the mild roll of surf are barely visible, save
for a line of white where the surf breaks. A trace of moonlight
redeems the sky from total darkness. The painting reflects the San
Francisco emphasis on tonalism, the contemplative, quiet side of
Impressionism that favored dreamy landscapes in dark, moody tones.

   Yet Redmond, a masterly painter of poppies, also did
``California Landscape with Flowers,'' probably dating from the
1920s. A broad daylight scene more than 6{ feet wide, it's a vista
of rolling hills, carpeted with golden yellow poppies and populous
with trees, stretching back toward distant mountains.

   Women were active in the California Impressionist movement, and
produced some of the show's more interesting works. Marion Kavanagh
Wachtel (1876-1954), married to the painter Elmer Wachtel
(1864-1929) _ whose slick ``Golden Autumn, Cajon Pass,'' undated,
is on view _ outdistances him with a lyrical watercolor,
``Landscape with Oak Trees.'' Not dissimilar in mood to Guy Rose's
``Laguna Eucalyptus,'' the painting depicts a clump of tilting oaks
clustered on a hillside, painted in muted tones of gold, deep dark
green and gray, overlooking a scenic valley.

   ``Study of Monterey Bay''(1918), by Eupremia Charlton Fortune
(1885-1969), is one of the most ``modern'' works in the show,
foreshadowing the abstract-figurative work that developed in the
San Francisco Bay area in the 1940s. A view of a bay and its
surrounding townscape, the work is done in a rich, painterly style
that all but subordinates subject matter to paint handling. It
evokes the wonderful early landscape abstractions of Richard
Diebenkorn.

   But be warned: after this show, you may not want to see a
California landscape for a long time. &QL;

   ``All Things Bright and Beautiful'' remains at the National
Academy Museum, 1083 Fifth Ave., between 89th and 90th Streets,
through July 5.
',
			body: '


   (bl)  
 By GRACE GLUECK   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ There are two immediate points to be made about the
show ``All Things Bright and Beautiful'' at the National Academy
Museum: It will satiate you with lush California scenery, and it
will tell you more than you want to know about the insipid regional
school known as California Impressionism.

   In full stride from around the turn of the century to the
mid-1920s, the artists of this group produced sun-drenched
treescapes, rockscapes, seascapes, mountainscapes, flowerscapes and
views of run-down old mission buildings, with little evidence in
their work of people or urban squalor.

   Their names _ Maurice Braun, Alson Clark, Armin Hansen, Anna
Hills, Hanson Puthuff, Joseph Raphael, Granville Redmond, Guy Rose,
Elmer Wachtel, Marion Kavanagh Wachtel and William Wendt, to
mention more than a few _ do not ring many bells in the East, and
there's a reason. Their work was less varied, less au courant and
even less adventurous than that of Childe Hassam, Thomas W. Dewing,
J. Alden Weir and other members of The Ten, the leading
Impressionists in New York. If you think of the California
Impressionists as ``pleasant'' painters, whose canvases are based
on the French school but lack its snap and sparkle, you've got the
idea.

   The Irvine Museum of Irvine, Calif., founded in 1992 by Joan
Irvine Smith of the land-rich California family, specializes in
this particular breed of Impressionism.

   ``All Things Bright and Beautiful,'' a selection from the
Irvine's holdings, appears along with paintings chosen from the
East Coast collections of and Mrs. Paul Bagley and and Mrs. Thomas
B. Stiles II. Curated by William H. Gerdts, a leading scholar in
the field, ``All Things'' is a big show, with more than 80
paintings by 45 artists. Technically, many of these artists are
very proficient. It's their relentless blandness that palls.

   Though by no means a cohesive group, the Californians _ ranging
from San Diego to San Francisco _ are lumped together as
Impressionists by virtue of their affinity for plein-air painting
and the clear, intense California light that suffuses their
canvases, captured in bright colors laid on with a fairly loose
brush.

   Admirers of Monet, some of them _ notably the prolific Guy Rose
(1867-1925), who is represented by no less than eight paintings in
the show _ even spent time in the American artists' colony around
Giverny, Monet's home outside Paris.

   Rose, one of the few California-born artists in the group, is
regarded as the state's leading Impressionist. And in this context,
his work stands out. He favored rock-and-seascapes, but
particularly impressive is his large ``Laguna Eucalyptus'' of 1916.
(This tree was so trite a subject among California painters that
their work was sometimes referred to as the ``eucalyptus school.'')
The painting, in unusually quiet colors, depicts a line of
delicately rendered trees in muted greens, grays and blues, their
umbrella-like tops reaching into a sky of puffy clouds.

   Another leading light was William Wendt (1865-1946), known by
the end of his career as the painter laureate of California. A
German emigre transplanted from Chicago to Los Angeles, he regarded
nature as a provider of spiritual as well as earthly bounties, and
California the most bounteous state of all.

   Of the six Wendts in the show, the most impressive is ``There is
No Solitude, Even in Nature,'' painted in 1906, the year he arrived
in Los Angeles. A view of the Laguna Canyon in golden sunlight,
whose approach owes more to Cezanne than to Monet, its broad, open
expanse of rocky outcroppings looks toward a distant mountain.

   An offbeat night scene, unusual in the daylight purlieus of
Impressionism, and the only one in the show, is the work of
Granville Redmond (1871-1935), who at different times worked in San
Francisco and Los Angeles. ``Nocturne'' is an undated shore view,
so steeped in deep, nuanced blue-green that the shape of a
low-lying hill and the mild roll of surf are barely visible, save
for a line of white where the surf breaks. A trace of moonlight
redeems the sky from total darkness. The painting reflects the San
Francisco emphasis on tonalism, the contemplative, quiet side of
Impressionism that favored dreamy landscapes in dark, moody tones.

   Yet Redmond, a masterly painter of poppies, also did
``California Landscape with Flowers,'' probably dating from the
1920s. A broad daylight scene more than 6{ feet wide, it's a vista
of rolling hills, carpeted with golden yellow poppies and populous
with trees, stretching back toward distant mountains.

   Women were active in the California Impressionist movement, and
produced some of the show's more interesting works. Marion Kavanagh
Wachtel (1876-1954), married to the painter Elmer Wachtel
(1864-1929) _ whose slick ``Golden Autumn, Cajon Pass,'' undated,
is on view _ outdistances him with a lyrical watercolor,
``Landscape with Oak Trees.'' Not dissimilar in mood to Guy Rose's
``Laguna Eucalyptus,'' the painting depicts a clump of tilting oaks
clustered on a hillside, painted in muted tones of gold, deep dark
green and gray, overlooking a scenic valley.

   ``Study of Monterey Bay''(1918), by Eupremia Charlton Fortune
(1885-1969), is one of the most ``modern'' works in the show,
foreshadowing the abstract-figurative work that developed in the
San Francisco Bay area in the 1940s. A view of a bay and its
surrounding townscape, the work is done in a rich, painterly style
that all but subordinates subject matter to paint handling. It
evokes the wonderful early landscape abstractions of Richard
Diebenkorn.

   But be warned: after this show, you may not want to see a
California landscape for a long time. &QL;

   ``All Things Bright and Beautiful'' remains at the National
Academy Museum, 1083 Fifth Ave., between 89th and 90th Streets,
through July 5.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0258 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:06 ',
			header: '
A5303 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ELIMINATE-CONSERVATIV     06-11 0011
',
			slug: ' BC-ELIMINATE-CONSERVATIVE-DEMOCRATS-HNS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
',
			body: '

  
 Thursday, June 11, 1998 

',
			paragraphs: '
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0259 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:06 ',
			header: '
A5304 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ELIMINATE-CONSERVATIV     06-11 0041
',
			slug: ' BC-ELIMINATE-CONSERVATIVE-DEMOCRATS-HNS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; Editors: &LR;  &QC;

   CONSERVATIVE-DEMOCRATS (Washington) will not move tonight on The
Hearst News Service.

   Hearst News Service\Washington.
',
			body: '

  
 Thursday, June 11, 1998 

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; Editors: &LR;  &QC;

   CONSERVATIVE-DEMOCRATS (Washington) will not move tonight on The
Hearst News Service.

   Hearst News Service\Washington.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0260 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:07 ',
			header: '
A5305 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-OTHELLO-BALLET-REVIEW     06-11 0673
',
			slug: ' BC-OTHELLO-BALLET-REVIEW-525&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
`OTHELLO': A DRAMA BUILT MORE ON CHARACTER THAN DANCING 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Lar Lubovitch's ``Othello'' gives the ballet stage a
whole new look. George Tsypin's sets for the three-act dance,
performed by American Ballet Theater on Wednesday afternoon and
evening at the Metropolitan Opera House, create a towering
landscape of ornate cathedral and palace interiors and a dock with
a huge, full-masted ship pulling in. Accomplished in part by
projections and Pat Collins' dramatic lighting, the look is
Broadway musical in an era of mobile chandeliers and helicopters.

   Elliot B. Goldenthal's dramatic score creates atmosphere in the
narrative-advancing style of movie music. ``Othello'' almost
doesn't need choreography. And Lubovitch, a modern-dance and
Broadway choreographer, has created a ballet that does not need
ballet dancers.

   At its worst, the movement is a matter of connecting dots, with
the performers pausing, as they move about the stage, to reveal
nuggets of psychological truth. Lubovitch's ensemble dances suggest
that he is resolutely observing certain conventions of 19th-century
ballet storytelling, adding flexed arms and feet for extra
interest. And his strangling motif is an unnecessary and
heavy-handed foreshadowing of the denouement.

   Where Lubovitch triumphs is in his psychological storytelling.
In what is essentially physical or gestural theater, he gives his
lead dancers enough material to create strong characters,
particularly in the charged third act.

   The evening's cast chose to present those characters in a fairly
straightforward Shakespearean manner. In the afternoon, ``Othello''
was a gripping emotional cat-and-mouse tale.

   Desmond Richardson, the evening's Othello, must be one of the
most majestic dancers ever to tread the Met stage. Richardson
towered over the dance. His brooding, regal Othello was a man of
explosive rage and tenderness, whose frantic yet powerful solos
suggested a strong man out of control.

   His duets with Iago, danced by Julio Bocca, made clear
Lubovitch's suggestion of a relationship that borders on the
erotic, at least for Iago. Bocca was charmingly unconvincing as an
all-out villain, looking a little like Albrecht to Richardson's
Giselle and the Hilarion of Angel Corella, the wide-eyed young
Cassio here. But Bocca _ and Corella _ made the most of the dance's
opportunities for high ballet jumps and multiple turns, tellingly
spit out in the case of Iago.

   Sandra Brown was an eager, uncomplicated Desdemona, a perfect
match for Corella's loving Cassio, becoming a touchingly frail
victim at the end. Kathleen Moore's Emilia was a horrified
spectator whose comforting of Desdemona sets the psychological
stage for an intriguingly elliptical death scene.

   Desdemona complies with her murder in this ``Othello.'' Julie
Kent's harrowing afternoon Desdemona seemed to sense her doom from
the start, as a woman with infinite love, concern and sadness for
her troubled husband. Keith Roberts' Othello was more a tortured
human being than the unstoppable force of nature that Richardson
projected, making the story smaller-scaled but more poignant.

   Robert Hill and Susan Jaffe pulled out all the dramatic stops as
Iago and Emilia, in performances that were so acutely realized they
were unnerving. Hill was a chill, understated psychopath. Ms. Jaffe
was a battered wife who craves her husband's infrequent moments of
sensuality yet feels lovingly responsible for Desdemona. Ethan
Stiefel was a bold young puppy of a Cassio.

   Stiefel and Corella made the most of the moment when Cassio
suddenly understands Iago's duplicity, a moment of stillness that
is one of Lubovitch's most startling images. The agent of that
revelation at both performances was Christina Fagundes as the
lusty, tarantella-dancing Bianca. Emil de Cou conducted at both
performances.
',
			body: '


  (lh) 
 By JENNIFER DUNNING   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Lar Lubovitch's ``Othello'' gives the ballet stage a
whole new look. George Tsypin's sets for the three-act dance,
performed by American Ballet Theater on Wednesday afternoon and
evening at the Metropolitan Opera House, create a towering
landscape of ornate cathedral and palace interiors and a dock with
a huge, full-masted ship pulling in. Accomplished in part by
projections and Pat Collins' dramatic lighting, the look is
Broadway musical in an era of mobile chandeliers and helicopters.

   Elliot B. Goldenthal's dramatic score creates atmosphere in the
narrative-advancing style of movie music. ``Othello'' almost
doesn't need choreography. And Lubovitch, a modern-dance and
Broadway choreographer, has created a ballet that does not need
ballet dancers.

   At its worst, the movement is a matter of connecting dots, with
the performers pausing, as they move about the stage, to reveal
nuggets of psychological truth. Lubovitch's ensemble dances suggest
that he is resolutely observing certain conventions of 19th-century
ballet storytelling, adding flexed arms and feet for extra
interest. And his strangling motif is an unnecessary and
heavy-handed foreshadowing of the denouement.

   Where Lubovitch triumphs is in his psychological storytelling.
In what is essentially physical or gestural theater, he gives his
lead dancers enough material to create strong characters,
particularly in the charged third act.

   The evening's cast chose to present those characters in a fairly
straightforward Shakespearean manner. In the afternoon, ``Othello''
was a gripping emotional cat-and-mouse tale.

   Desmond Richardson, the evening's Othello, must be one of the
most majestic dancers ever to tread the Met stage. Richardson
towered over the dance. His brooding, regal Othello was a man of
explosive rage and tenderness, whose frantic yet powerful solos
suggested a strong man out of control.

   His duets with Iago, danced by Julio Bocca, made clear
Lubovitch's suggestion of a relationship that borders on the
erotic, at least for Iago. Bocca was charmingly unconvincing as an
all-out villain, looking a little like Albrecht to Richardson's
Giselle and the Hilarion of Angel Corella, the wide-eyed young
Cassio here. But Bocca _ and Corella _ made the most of the dance's
opportunities for high ballet jumps and multiple turns, tellingly
spit out in the case of Iago.

   Sandra Brown was an eager, uncomplicated Desdemona, a perfect
match for Corella's loving Cassio, becoming a touchingly frail
victim at the end. Kathleen Moore's Emilia was a horrified
spectator whose comforting of Desdemona sets the psychological
stage for an intriguingly elliptical death scene.

   Desdemona complies with her murder in this ``Othello.'' Julie
Kent's harrowing afternoon Desdemona seemed to sense her doom from
the start, as a woman with infinite love, concern and sadness for
her troubled husband. Keith Roberts' Othello was more a tortured
human being than the unstoppable force of nature that Richardson
projected, making the story smaller-scaled but more poignant.

   Robert Hill and Susan Jaffe pulled out all the dramatic stops as
Iago and Emilia, in performances that were so acutely realized they
were unnerving. Hill was a chill, understated psychopath. Ms. Jaffe
was a battered wife who craves her husband's infrequent moments of
sensuality yet feels lovingly responsible for Desdemona. Ethan
Stiefel was a bold young puppy of a Cassio.

   Stiefel and Corella made the most of the moment when Cassio
suddenly understands Iago's duplicity, a moment of stillness that
is one of Lubovitch's most startling images. The agent of that
revelation at both performances was Christina Fagundes as the
lusty, tarantella-dancing Bianca. Emil de Cou conducted at both
performances.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0261 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:07 ',
			header: '
A5306 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ELIMINATE-CONSERVATIV     06-11 0041
',
			slug: ' BC-ELIMINATE-CONSERVATIVE-DEMOCRATS-HNS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; Editors: &LR;  &QC;

   CONSERVATIVE-DEMOCRATS (Washington) will not move tonight on The
Hearst News Service.

   Hearst News Service\Washington.
',
			body: '

  
 Thursday, June 11, 1998 

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; Editors: &LR;  &QC;

   CONSERVATIVE-DEMOCRATS (Washington) will not move tonight on The
Hearst News Service.

   Hearst News Service\Washington.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0262 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:10 ',
			header: '
A5311 &Cx1f; ttg-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NYLITE(SMILE)-NYT &LR;      06-11 0818
',
			slug: ' BC-NYLITE(SMILE)-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; (NYLite items can be published if desired; &LR;  please credit the
contributor. Contribute to NYLite and get a NYT rolling-writer
style pen.)

   Dr. NYlite can now be reached by e-mail:  &UR; nylite(at)nytimes.com &LR; 
(use ``at'' sign sted (at)).

   &UR; GOOD DAY, WIRE WANDERERS!!!!! &LR;

   Offer not available in any store! (Or any other news service!)

   Looking for contributors with wit, style, depth, charm and
genius with jokes, anecdotes, humorous news items, bonus NYLite
offerings, or filler material.

   Dr. NYLite will respond with a GENUINE New York Times rolling
writer-style pen if your item is used. (But see coffee mug offer
above.)

   All items fit to fax to 212-556-3535 (24 hours), via uniformed
government courier, or, now by e-mail (nylite(at)nytimes.com).

   &UR; AN ARM AND A LEG &LR;

   Adam was walking around the Garden of Eden feeling very lonely.

   So God asked Adam, `What is wrong?`

   Adam said he didn't have anyone with whom to talk.

   God said he was going to give him a companion and it would be a
woman.

   He said, this person will cook for you and wash your clothes and
she will always agree with every decision you make.

   She will bear you children and never ask you to get up in the
middle  &QL; 
of the night to take care of them.

   She will not nag you, and will always be the first to admit she
was  &QL; 
wrong when you've had a disagreement.

   She will never have a headache, and will freely give you love
and  &QL; 
compassion whenever needed.

   Adam asked God, `What would a woman like this cost?`

   God said, `An arm and a leg.`

   Adam said `What can I get for a just a rib?`

   &UR; BILL'S WORLD &LR;

   &UR; By Bill Tammeus, The Kansas City Star &LR;

   ``We live in an age where technology and terrorism can be
combined to deadly effect,'' says Mr. Clinton. Like the Jerry
Springer show?

   ``Guns and drugs,'' Mr. Clinton says, ``remain serious problems
among our youth.'' How times change. When they were toddlers the
problems had more to do with gum on rugs.

   The president says we must ``deprive drug traffickers of the
dirty money that fuels their deadly trade.'' He wants us to launder
dough?

   ``We are determined to build a drug-free America,'' Mr. Clinton
says. Should men stock up now on Viagra?

   Newt Gingrich says textbooks will be obsolete in a few years and
should be replaced by personal computers. Hold on. Do we want kids
to be able to use the excuse that their book crashed?

   Gingrich says each kid entering first grade should get a
personal computer. Plus directions to the restroom.

   A new poll shows Liddy Dole would beat Hillary Rodham Clinton
for president. No word yet on how the Dole dog Leader would do
against first dog Buddy.

   It looks to Aunt Ilse from Oelwein as if the new $203-billion
federal highway bill, which is supposed to improve driving, is more
about improved porking.

   Another question about the federal government going after both
Microsoft and Intel is whether it could do this without using
Miscrosoft software on computers with Intel chips.

   The ninth military leader since 1960 has taken power in Nigeria.
Maybe the name should be changed to Nigeneralia.

   Monica Lewinsky's new attorneys, Plato Cacheris and Jacob Stein,
are the talk of Washington. Never trust a town whose celebrities
are lawyers.

   Pat Robertson says a hurricane may hit Orlando because it
allowed a celebration by gays. That would make both Orlando and
Robertson all wet.

   A newly passed Southern Baptist statement says wives should
``submit graciously'' to their husband's leadership. Does that mean
not laughing at his bonehead ideas in front of the children?

   ``One of the things that will lead to a reduction in teen
smoking,'' says Mr. Clinton, ``is making cigarettes more
expensive.'' Then why haven't more expensive cars reduced teen
driving?

   Alan Greenspan says the current economy ``is as impressive as
any I have witnessed'' in nearly 50 years. Makes you wonder what it
would be without the Clinton investigation sector.

   Recent anti-government protests in China reveal again that
sometimes you can't tell really courageous people from really
foolish ones.

   New figures show women now earn 76 cents for every $1 earned by
men. No word on how much of one gender's earnings the other gender
gets to spend.

   Nigeria's new military ruler says he supports a transition to
civilian rule. Does that mean he'll leave his uniform in the
closet?

   A cash shortage in Russia may require it to abandon its space
station this fall, a year ahead of schedule. But it's hard to know
because now we see through a Mir darkly.

   Russia's parliament has postponed consideration of the Start II
arms reduction treaty. Maybe it should be renamed Start II-morrow.

   &QL;
',
			body: '

  
 No. 2520 Mon., June 11: 

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; (NYLite items can be published if desired; &LR;  please credit the
contributor. Contribute to NYLite and get a NYT rolling-writer
style pen.)

   Dr. NYlite can now be reached by e-mail:  &UR; nylite(at)nytimes.com &LR; 
(use ``at'' sign sted (at)).

   &UR; GOOD DAY, WIRE WANDERERS!!!!! &LR;

   Offer not available in any store! (Or any other news service!)

   Looking for contributors with wit, style, depth, charm and
genius with jokes, anecdotes, humorous news items, bonus NYLite
offerings, or filler material.

   Dr. NYLite will respond with a GENUINE New York Times rolling
writer-style pen if your item is used. (But see coffee mug offer
above.)

   All items fit to fax to 212-556-3535 (24 hours), via uniformed
government courier, or, now by e-mail (nylite(at)nytimes.com).

   &UR; AN ARM AND A LEG &LR;

   Adam was walking around the Garden of Eden feeling very lonely.

   So God asked Adam, `What is wrong?`

   Adam said he didn't have anyone with whom to talk.

   God said he was going to give him a companion and it would be a
woman.

   He said, this person will cook for you and wash your clothes and
she will always agree with every decision you make.

   She will bear you children and never ask you to get up in the
middle  &QL; 
of the night to take care of them.

   She will not nag you, and will always be the first to admit she
was  &QL; 
wrong when you've had a disagreement.

   She will never have a headache, and will freely give you love
and  &QL; 
compassion whenever needed.

   Adam asked God, `What would a woman like this cost?`

   God said, `An arm and a leg.`

   Adam said `What can I get for a just a rib?`

   &UR; BILL'S WORLD &LR;

   &UR; By Bill Tammeus, The Kansas City Star &LR;

   ``We live in an age where technology and terrorism can be
combined to deadly effect,'' says Mr. Clinton. Like the Jerry
Springer show?

   ``Guns and drugs,'' Mr. Clinton says, ``remain serious problems
among our youth.'' How times change. When they were toddlers the
problems had more to do with gum on rugs.

   The president says we must ``deprive drug traffickers of the
dirty money that fuels their deadly trade.'' He wants us to launder
dough?

   ``We are determined to build a drug-free America,'' Mr. Clinton
says. Should men stock up now on Viagra?

   Newt Gingrich says textbooks will be obsolete in a few years and
should be replaced by personal computers. Hold on. Do we want kids
to be able to use the excuse that their book crashed?

   Gingrich says each kid entering first grade should get a
personal computer. Plus directions to the restroom.

   A new poll shows Liddy Dole would beat Hillary Rodham Clinton
for president. No word yet on how the Dole dog Leader would do
against first dog Buddy.

   It looks to Aunt Ilse from Oelwein as if the new $203-billion
federal highway bill, which is supposed to improve driving, is more
about improved porking.

   Another question about the federal government going after both
Microsoft and Intel is whether it could do this without using
Miscrosoft software on computers with Intel chips.

   The ninth military leader since 1960 has taken power in Nigeria.
Maybe the name should be changed to Nigeneralia.

   Monica Lewinsky's new attorneys, Plato Cacheris and Jacob Stein,
are the talk of Washington. Never trust a town whose celebrities
are lawyers.

   Pat Robertson says a hurricane may hit Orlando because it
allowed a celebration by gays. That would make both Orlando and
Robertson all wet.

   A newly passed Southern Baptist statement says wives should
``submit graciously'' to their husband's leadership. Does that mean
not laughing at his bonehead ideas in front of the children?

   ``One of the things that will lead to a reduction in teen
smoking,'' says Mr. Clinton, ``is making cigarettes more
expensive.'' Then why haven't more expensive cars reduced teen
driving?

   Alan Greenspan says the current economy ``is as impressive as
any I have witnessed'' in nearly 50 years. Makes you wonder what it
would be without the Clinton investigation sector.

   Recent anti-government protests in China reveal again that
sometimes you can't tell really courageous people from really
foolish ones.

   New figures show women now earn 76 cents for every $1 earned by
men. No word on how much of one gender's earnings the other gender
gets to spend.

   Nigeria's new military ruler says he supports a transition to
civilian rule. Does that mean he'll leave his uniform in the
closet?

   A cash shortage in Russia may require it to abandon its space
station this fall, a year ahead of schedule. But it's hard to know
because now we see through a Mir darkly.

   Russia's parliament has postponed consideration of the Start II
arms reduction treaty. Maybe it should be renamed Start II-morrow.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0263 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:11 ',
			header: '
A5313 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EARLY-FRONTPAGE-NYT &LR;      06-11 0520
',
			slug: ' BC-EARLY-FRONTPAGE-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   (pr) &QL;

   Here are the stories New York Times editors are planning for
Page 1, Friday, June 12. The NYT frontpage advisory, with layout
description, will move by 7:30 p.m. ET. The NYT News Service Night
Supervisor is Pat Ryan (212-556-1927).

   KOSOVO-NATO (Brussels, Belgium) _ NATO defense ministers
commission contingency plans for bombing Serbian targets in Kosovo
and say they will stage a huge military exercise at Serbia's
doorstep as early as next week to give the Yugoslav president,
Slobodan Milosevic, a taste of the power that could be turned on
him if he persists in attacks on the province. By Craig R. Whitney.
With graphic. 1,500 words.

   With: KOSOVO-RUSSIA

   KOSOVO-LANDMINES (Kukes, Albania) _ A chilling new element has
become part of the Serbian campaign against ethnic Albanians: Land
mines. By Chris Hedges.

   GM-STRIKE (Detroit) _ Negotiators for UAW and GM struggle to
head off a strike by workers at a second GM parts factory in Flint,
as the union and the world's largest automaker began bracing
themselves for a protracted struggle. By Keith Bradsher.

   ASIA-GLOOM (Hong Kong) _ That the Asian financial crisis is
mutating into the Asian recession is not a surprise, but the depth
of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and the gloom that
suffuses the region have surprised even the pessimists. By Mark
Landler. With graphic. 2,000 words.

   REED-POLITICS (Atlanta) _ With the Republican primary season in
full bloom, Ralph Reed and his new consulting firm sit atop the
fault line between the pragmatists and the purists within America's
religious right. By Kevin Sack. With photo.

   MAGAZINE-FABRICATION (New York) _ Examining the breadth and
depth of the journalistic fabrications by Stephen Glass, the New
Republic writer whose case has prompted a flurry of soul-searching
in the news media. By Robin Pogrebin.

   Reefers:

   CHINA-CLINTON (Washington) _ Forced by an angry Congress to
justify his coming summit meeting in China, President Clinton
describes his policy of cooperation with Beijing as ``principled
and pragmatic,'' and says he is engaging China on shared commercial
and security issues while not turning a blind eye to the troubling
human rights record. By John M. Broder.

   TOBACCO-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The Senate is expected to vote
on a proposal to limit lawyers' fees in tobacco suits to $1,000 an
hour. By David E. Rosenbaum.

   CAMPAIGN-FINANCE (Washington) _ Campaign finance developments.
By Alison Mitchell.

   CLINTON-JONES (Undated) _ In rejecting a possible settlement of
her sexual misconduct lawsuit against President Clinton, Paula
Jones was warned by her lawyers last August that she was risking
``devastation'' in pursuing a claim that could sully her
reputation, and would ultimately fail and ``snatch defeat from the
jaws of victory.'' By Francis X. Clines.

   CHICAGO-GUN-SUIT (Chicago) _ Mayor Daley of Chicago is preparing
a suit against gun manufacturers, saying they should be held liable
for violence, like tobacco companies for sickness.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   (pr) &QL;

   Here are the stories New York Times editors are planning for
Page 1, Friday, June 12. The NYT frontpage advisory, with layout
description, will move by 7:30 p.m. ET. The NYT News Service Night
Supervisor is Pat Ryan (212-556-1927).

   KOSOVO-NATO (Brussels, Belgium) _ NATO defense ministers
commission contingency plans for bombing Serbian targets in Kosovo
and say they will stage a huge military exercise at Serbia's
doorstep as early as next week to give the Yugoslav president,
Slobodan Milosevic, a taste of the power that could be turned on
him if he persists in attacks on the province. By Craig R. Whitney.
With graphic. 1,500 words.

   With: KOSOVO-RUSSIA

   KOSOVO-LANDMINES (Kukes, Albania) _ A chilling new element has
become part of the Serbian campaign against ethnic Albanians: Land
mines. By Chris Hedges.

   GM-STRIKE (Detroit) _ Negotiators for UAW and GM struggle to
head off a strike by workers at a second GM parts factory in Flint,
as the union and the world's largest automaker began bracing
themselves for a protracted struggle. By Keith Bradsher.

   ASIA-GLOOM (Hong Kong) _ That the Asian financial crisis is
mutating into the Asian recession is not a surprise, but the depth
of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and the gloom that
suffuses the region have surprised even the pessimists. By Mark
Landler. With graphic. 2,000 words.

   REED-POLITICS (Atlanta) _ With the Republican primary season in
full bloom, Ralph Reed and his new consulting firm sit atop the
fault line between the pragmatists and the purists within America's
religious right. By Kevin Sack. With photo.

   MAGAZINE-FABRICATION (New York) _ Examining the breadth and
depth of the journalistic fabrications by Stephen Glass, the New
Republic writer whose case has prompted a flurry of soul-searching
in the news media. By Robin Pogrebin.

   Reefers:

   CHINA-CLINTON (Washington) _ Forced by an angry Congress to
justify his coming summit meeting in China, President Clinton
describes his policy of cooperation with Beijing as ``principled
and pragmatic,'' and says he is engaging China on shared commercial
and security issues while not turning a blind eye to the troubling
human rights record. By John M. Broder.

   TOBACCO-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The Senate is expected to vote
on a proposal to limit lawyers' fees in tobacco suits to $1,000 an
hour. By David E. Rosenbaum.

   CAMPAIGN-FINANCE (Washington) _ Campaign finance developments.
By Alison Mitchell.

   CLINTON-JONES (Undated) _ In rejecting a possible settlement of
her sexual misconduct lawsuit against President Clinton, Paula
Jones was warned by her lawyers last August that she was risking
``devastation'' in pursuing a claim that could sully her
reputation, and would ultimately fail and ``snatch defeat from the
jaws of victory.'' By Francis X. Clines.

   CHICAGO-GUN-SUIT (Chicago) _ Mayor Daley of Chicago is preparing
a suit against gun manufacturers, saying they should be held liable
for violence, like tobacco companies for sickness.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0264 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:12 ',
			header: '
A5315 &Cx1f; tad-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-DRAGGING-CONGRESS-COX     06-11 0614
',
			slug: ' BC-DRAGGING-CONGRESS-COX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ In the busy halls of Congress Thursday, his name
rang often.

   ``James Byrd Jr. was a constituent of mine,'' said Rep. Jim
Turner, D-Texas. ``His brutal death has shocked the conscience and
saddened the hearts of all of us.''

   Turner and several colleagues wore yellow ribbons and looks of
grief Thursday as the House voted 397-0 to approve a resolution
denouncing the killing of Byrd, whose mangled torso was found
Sunday on a country road about 10 miles from his home in Jasper,
Texas.

   Byrd's severed head, neck and right arm were found about a mile
away. Three white men, who investigators say have ties to white
supremacist groups, have been charged with murder.

   Some House members had difficulty expressing their outrage.

   ``It is difficult to fathom how people could be so hateful, so
completely cruel and so utterly evil as to drag a man behind a
pickup truck until he was dead,'' said Rep. David Bonior, D-Mich.

   ``Words are very inadequate to encompass the dimensions of this
tragic event _ everybody is shocked by it,'' said Rep. Henry Hyde,
R-Ill.

   Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., a longtime civil rights activist, was
not present for the vote on the resolution, which was introduced by
Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif.

   Earlier Thursday, Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, said
congressional action was necessary.

   ``I think this kind of horrible business must be addressed by
the Congress. We've got to repudiate it as strongly as possible, ''
he said.

   On the House floor, some called for swift justice for the men
who are accused of the crime.

   Two of the three suspects were cellmates in prison, and their
bodies are marked with racist tattoos, which led police to believe
the murder may have been racially motivated.

   ``I have urged the U.S. attorney to prosecute with the full
force of federal civil rights laws,'' Turner said.

   Rep. Scott McInnis, R-Colo, said this and other non-race related
crimes beg for stricter law enforcement.

   ``I can't forgive them,'' he said of the suspects. ``That's why
I support the death penalty.''

   Attorney General Janet Reno said Thursday that the FBI and
federal prosecutors were working with local authorities to decide
whether to proceed with a state or federal prosecution. If a racial
motivation can be shown and an interference with federally
protected rights proved, the defendants could be charged under a
federal civil rights statute, which carries the death penalty in
cases in which the victim is killed.

   ``We will reach a mutual decision with the district attorney
based on what is in the best interests of the case, the best
interests of the community and the best interests of justice,''
Reno said.

   Also Thursday, the Congressional Black Caucus held a Capitol
Hill press conference in response to Byrd's death.

   Waters, the caucus's chairman, said the ``hate crime'' was not
an isolated incident.

   ``We have been witnessing a fire storm of hate across this
country. Black churches have been burned, discrimination claims are
rising and random killings based on racial hatred have escalated,''
she said.

   Turner joined the press conference.

   ``I hope as the congressman from the district where this
terrible act occurred that we can use this as an opportunity to
recommit ourselves to ending racial hatred and racial prejudice and
moving forward to the day when no American can fear an outburst of
racial hatred as this one,'' Turner said.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
',
			body: '

     CONGRESS DENOUNCES SLAYING OF BLACK
MAN IN TEXAS
 &HT;     By EUNICE MOSCOSO 
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ In the busy halls of Congress Thursday, his name
rang often.

   ``James Byrd Jr. was a constituent of mine,'' said Rep. Jim
Turner, D-Texas. ``His brutal death has shocked the conscience and
saddened the hearts of all of us.''

   Turner and several colleagues wore yellow ribbons and looks of
grief Thursday as the House voted 397-0 to approve a resolution
denouncing the killing of Byrd, whose mangled torso was found
Sunday on a country road about 10 miles from his home in Jasper,
Texas.

   Byrd's severed head, neck and right arm were found about a mile
away. Three white men, who investigators say have ties to white
supremacist groups, have been charged with murder.

   Some House members had difficulty expressing their outrage.

   ``It is difficult to fathom how people could be so hateful, so
completely cruel and so utterly evil as to drag a man behind a
pickup truck until he was dead,'' said Rep. David Bonior, D-Mich.

   ``Words are very inadequate to encompass the dimensions of this
tragic event _ everybody is shocked by it,'' said Rep. Henry Hyde,
R-Ill.

   Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., a longtime civil rights activist, was
not present for the vote on the resolution, which was introduced by
Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif.

   Earlier Thursday, Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, said
congressional action was necessary.

   ``I think this kind of horrible business must be addressed by
the Congress. We've got to repudiate it as strongly as possible, ''
he said.

   On the House floor, some called for swift justice for the men
who are accused of the crime.

   Two of the three suspects were cellmates in prison, and their
bodies are marked with racist tattoos, which led police to believe
the murder may have been racially motivated.

   ``I have urged the U.S. attorney to prosecute with the full
force of federal civil rights laws,'' Turner said.

   Rep. Scott McInnis, R-Colo, said this and other non-race related
crimes beg for stricter law enforcement.

   ``I can't forgive them,'' he said of the suspects. ``That's why
I support the death penalty.''

   Attorney General Janet Reno said Thursday that the FBI and
federal prosecutors were working with local authorities to decide
whether to proceed with a state or federal prosecution. If a racial
motivation can be shown and an interference with federally
protected rights proved, the defendants could be charged under a
federal civil rights statute, which carries the death penalty in
cases in which the victim is killed.

   ``We will reach a mutual decision with the district attorney
based on what is in the best interests of the case, the best
interests of the community and the best interests of justice,''
Reno said.

   Also Thursday, the Congressional Black Caucus held a Capitol
Hill press conference in response to Byrd's death.

   Waters, the caucus's chairman, said the ``hate crime'' was not
an isolated incident.

   ``We have been witnessing a fire storm of hate across this
country. Black churches have been burned, discrimination claims are
rising and random killings based on racial hatred have escalated,''
she said.

   Turner joined the press conference.

   ``I hope as the congressman from the district where this
terrible act occurred that we can use this as an opportunity to
recommit ourselves to ending racial hatred and racial prejudice and
moving forward to the day when no American can fear an outburst of
racial hatred as this one,'' Turner said.

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0265 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:14 ',
			header: '
A5317 &Cx1f; tta-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ASIA-GLOOM-ART-520(2T     06-11 1045
',
			slug: ' BC-ASIA-GLOOM-ART-520(2TAKES)-NYT ',
			headline: '
ASIAN FINANCIAL CRISIS IS TURNING INTO MAJOR RECESSION 
',
			trailer: '
   HONG KONG _ It has been nearly a year since Thailand devalued
its currency, igniting a financial firestorm that spread across
Asia. Now, far from recovering, Asia's economies may be heading
into a worsening decline.

   In dismal succession over the last two weeks, Hong Kong,
Malaysia, and Indonesia confirmed that their economies shrank in
the first quarter of 1998, and were likely to keep contracting for
the rest of the year. Japan, South Korea and Thailand are also in
retreat, and even those that have managed to keep growing _ Taiwan,
the Philippines, Singapore and China _ are slowing to a crawl.

   The Asian financial crisis appears to be mutating into the most
serious region-wide recession since the end of World War II.

   By itself, a recession would not be a surprise. Last year's
crashing currencies and stock markets were bound to drag down
fundamental economic performance. A recession, which would be
declared officially after two consecutive quarters of economic
contraction, is almost certainly under way.

   But the depth of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and
the gloom that suffuses the region have surprised even the
pessimists.

   ``We're in for a really hard time,'' said Richard Margolis, a
regional economist at Merrill Lynch &AMP; Co. in Hong Kong. ``Wherever
you look around the region, you don't find a lot to be cheerful
about. There is a general pall hanging over Asia.''

   The culprit in this latest bout of Asian contraction and gloom
is the Japanese yen, which has plummeted against the U.S. dollar
and put enormous pressure on other Asian currencies. Thursday, the
yen fell briefly to a nearly eight-year low against the dollar,
settling in New York at 143.79 to the dollar after reaching an
intraday trough of 144.21.

   Stock markets throughout Asia have plunged to their lowest
levels in years. In Bangkok, where the crisis began, the stock
market closed Thursday at its lowest level in 10 years.

   The fear among investors is that a chronically ill Asia will
also infect the robust U.S. and European economies. So far the
negative effects have been negligible; if anything, the meltdown
across the Pacific has been mildly positive for the United States
because it has contributed to keeping prices of imported goods down
and interest rates low, fueling spending by flush American
consumers.

   Now, though, there are more troubling symptoms: U.S. companies
dependent on sales to Asia are reporting anemic earnings, and over
all, exports from the United States declined 3.4 percent in the
first quarter of 1998. Markets around the world have been on edge
about the prospects for companies that do business in the region
and stocks fell Thursday not only in Asia, but in most of Europe
and the United States as well. The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 159.93 points.

   Here in Asia, no relief seems in sight. After some predictions
that major economies would bounce back quickly, perhaps in six
months, most economists and analysts now agree that the region will
be flat on its back for at least another year. A full recovery
could take as long as five years.

   Gary Greenberg, the managing director of Van Eck Global Asset
Management, said he had given up predicting a turnaround because it
hinged on too many variables. ``It's going to take longer than we
thought,'' he said, ticking off a laundry list of problems ranging
from insolvent banks and depressed real estate markets to the
falling Japanese yen and the slowing growth in China.

   Foreign sentiment toward Asia has turned bleaker in the last two
weeks, with the slide in the yen's value. Japan's economic ills
have dire implications because many analysts regard it as the
locomotive that could propel Asia's recovery.

   ``Right now, the locomotive is in the rail yard,'' Margolis
said.

   Hard times have also aggravated political tensions, fracturing a
public consensus that favored aggressive, growth-oriented policies
_ even if that meant sacrificing political liberties. In South
Korea, tens of thousands of workers walked off their jobs late last
month to protest impending layoffs.

   In Hong Kong, a noisy crowd of 200 apartment owners marched on
the government to complain about the plunging value of real estate.

   In the most spectacular example, those tensions contributed in
Indonesia to the ouster last month of President Suharto, who had
ruled with an iron grip for more than three decades.

   While Malaysia's political situation appears more stable, some
analysts said it could be the next flash point, as Prime Minister
Mahathir Mohamad tries to salvage an ambitious development program
in a collapsing economy. Malaysia shares Indonesia's problem of
latent tension between a native majority and ethnic Chinese, a
minority of the population who control a large portion of the
economy.

   Even in South Korea and Thailand, where leaders identified with
discredited practices were swept out in favor of reform-minded
politicians, tensions remain. Political leaders face a backlash
from a public desperate for relief from economic pain. Given
younger Asians' limited experience with bad times, it is perhaps no
surprise that the leaders have few remedies.

   ``They've never had to face this kind of thing before in Asia,''
said David K.P. Li, the chairman of the Bank of East Asia here.

   Sometimes it seems that the politicians cannot do anything
right. In Hong Kong, the administration announced a seven-point
stimulus package that aims to bolster tourism and soothe the
property market. Critics, including Li, derided the measures as
``too little, too late.'' In Malaysia, Mahathir criticized the
nation's central bank for setting interest rates too high, which he
said strangled the economy. But he was contradicted by his own
deputy prime minister, Anwar Ibrahim.

   nn

   Much of the tension can be traced to the role played by the
International Monetary Fund, which has put together more than $100
million in rescue packages for Indonesia, South Korea and Thailand.
Far from being viewed as a neutral disburser of funds, the IMF is
often seen as a sort of fifth column _ blamed for everything from
high interest rates to the mayhem in Jakarta.

   The fund's defenders say it has succeeded in forcing countries
like South Korea and Thailand to purge such excesses as unregulated
banks and ``crony capitalism,'' in which the well-connected receive
sweetheart deals. Under pressure from the IMF, even Indonesia's new
president, B.J. Habibie, is going after the excesses of his
predecessor, Suharto.

   ``Koreans who know better know that without the IMF, the
government would have had to declare a moratorium,'' said Richard
Samuelson, executive director of SBC Warburg Dillon Read in Seoul.

   But critics said the fund's fiscal and monetary prescriptions _
which favor high interest rates and stable exchange rates, even at
the cost of recession _ are strangling some Asian economies by
choking off credit.

   ``A lot of people are questioning whether the IMF's policy is
squeezing the economy dry,'' said an executive at a major Thai
bank, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``You're no longer just
squeezing the cronies,'' he said. ``You're making it impossible for
normal businessmen to do business.''

   In South Korea, the IMF has been unable to stanch the flow of
loans from banks to the country's troubled conglomerates. Analysts
warn that these infusions could land Korea in a domestic version of
the foreign debt crisis that precipitated its near-collapse last
year. They said the bad loans held by Korean banks could reach $90
billion by the end of the year, up from $50 billion at the end of
1997.

   Few people disagree about the need for drastic reform in
Indonesia. Since Suharto's ouster, the country's shattered economy
has barely resumed functioning. Before Indonesia can even address
its structural problems, economists said it must insure that basic
commodities like rice, fuel, cooking oil and sugar are being
delivered to stores.

   ``This is not just an economic but a political issue,'' said
Mari Pangetsu, executive director of the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a research center in Jakarta. Ms. Pangetsu
warned that without basic commodities, Indonesia was ripe for
another eruption of mob violence.

   The IMF recently announced that it would resume payments to
Indonesia under a rescue program worth more than $40 billion. And
last week, the country announced it had reached an agreement with a
consortium of foreign banks to stretch out its repayment of about
$80 billion in foreign-currency loans owned by private companies.

   Still, the country's ability to complete the structural reforms
it has promised to the IMF remains in question, given Habibie's
struggle to consolidate power in the face of opposition from
students and a restive military.

   Even if the government is able to pursue its economic program
without further disruption, the economy could contract as much as
25 percent this year, according to some forecasts. Certain sectors
_ the fledgling auto industry is a prime example _ have stopped
producing altogether.

   If Indonesia represents one pole of the Asian crisis, its
next-door neighbor, Singapore, would seem to represent the other.
With political calm and a stable currency, the prosperous
city-state has few of Indonesia's weaknesses. Yet Singapore's
growth has slowed dramatically, and some analysts predict that even
there, the economy will move into reverse by the end of the year.

   Taiwan and the Philippines have also been bright spots in the
Asian gloom. But they may not be able to continue defying the odds.
The Taiwan stock market tumbled last week amid fears of a slump in
the global semiconductor business, one of the island's biggest
industries.

   And analysts are scrutinizing the newly elected president of the
Philippines, Joseph Estrada, a former movie actor, to see whether
his reputation as a man of the people will extend to a
free-spending economic policy.

   Asian political leaders have been frustrated by their inability
to stem the tide of events. Nowhere is this more apparent than in
Hong Kong, the former British colony, now under Chinese control,
that is at the crossroads of Asian trade.

   Hong Kong has huge foreign-exchange reserves, solid banks and
the most stable currency in the region. Yet it is now suffering
many of the ills that afflict less healthy Asian economies _ chief
among them slumping trade. With anemic demand for its products and
a weakening yen that undercuts its competitiveness, Hong Kong can
do little to revive exports, which are the engine of its economy.

   ``Every Mercedes-Benz that we buy must be financed through
export earnings,'' said Jan Lee, chief economist here of the
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank.

   Worse, Hong Kong's long-term growth is tied inextricably to
growth in China. While the mainland c grew at an average annual
rate of 11.1 percent between 1992 and 1996, the economy is tailing
off there, too. Few economists expect China to achieve its 8
percent growth target for 1998, and there is concern that, despite
repeated promises to the contrary, Chinese officials might feel
forced to devalue the renminbi, sending other currencies plunging.

   For the immediate future, though, Japan may be the single
biggest determinant of how long Asia's torment will last. Without a
revival of consumer spending in Japan, analysts say, exports in the
rest of Asia will continue to sag. And the weaker yen will continue
to hobble other currencies.

   ``If Japan doesn't solve its problems, the region is in big
trouble,'' said Rajiv Malik, a regional economist at Jardine
Fleming International Securities in Singapore. ``America thought
Korea was a problem, but Japan is like a bomb a hundred times more
powerful than Korea.''
',
			body: '


  (ART ADV: Graphic showing how Asian financial crisis is turning
into a recession is being sent to NYT photo clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(bl) 
 By MARK LANDLER   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   HONG KONG _ It has been nearly a year since Thailand devalued
its currency, igniting a financial firestorm that spread across
Asia. Now, far from recovering, Asia's economies may be heading
into a worsening decline.

   In dismal succession over the last two weeks, Hong Kong,
Malaysia, and Indonesia confirmed that their economies shrank in
the first quarter of 1998, and were likely to keep contracting for
the rest of the year. Japan, South Korea and Thailand are also in
retreat, and even those that have managed to keep growing _ Taiwan,
the Philippines, Singapore and China _ are slowing to a crawl.

   The Asian financial crisis appears to be mutating into the most
serious region-wide recession since the end of World War II.

   By itself, a recession would not be a surprise. Last year's
crashing currencies and stock markets were bound to drag down
fundamental economic performance. A recession, which would be
declared officially after two consecutive quarters of economic
contraction, is almost certainly under way.

   But the depth of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and
the gloom that suffuses the region have surprised even the
pessimists.

   ``We're in for a really hard time,'' said Richard Margolis, a
regional economist at Merrill Lynch &AMP; Co. in Hong Kong. ``Wherever
you look around the region, you don't find a lot to be cheerful
about. There is a general pall hanging over Asia.''

   The culprit in this latest bout of Asian contraction and gloom
is the Japanese yen, which has plummeted against the U.S. dollar
and put enormous pressure on other Asian currencies. Thursday, the
yen fell briefly to a nearly eight-year low against the dollar,
settling in New York at 143.79 to the dollar after reaching an
intraday trough of 144.21.

   Stock markets throughout Asia have plunged to their lowest
levels in years. In Bangkok, where the crisis began, the stock
market closed Thursday at its lowest level in 10 years.

   The fear among investors is that a chronically ill Asia will
also infect the robust U.S. and European economies. So far the
negative effects have been negligible; if anything, the meltdown
across the Pacific has been mildly positive for the United States
because it has contributed to keeping prices of imported goods down
and interest rates low, fueling spending by flush American
consumers.

   Now, though, there are more troubling symptoms: U.S. companies
dependent on sales to Asia are reporting anemic earnings, and over
all, exports from the United States declined 3.4 percent in the
first quarter of 1998. Markets around the world have been on edge
about the prospects for companies that do business in the region
and stocks fell Thursday not only in Asia, but in most of Europe
and the United States as well. The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 159.93 points.

   Here in Asia, no relief seems in sight. After some predictions
that major economies would bounce back quickly, perhaps in six
months, most economists and analysts now agree that the region will
be flat on its back for at least another year. A full recovery
could take as long as five years.

   Gary Greenberg, the managing director of Van Eck Global Asset
Management, said he had given up predicting a turnaround because it
hinged on too many variables. ``It's going to take longer than we
thought,'' he said, ticking off a laundry list of problems ranging
from insolvent banks and depressed real estate markets to the
falling Japanese yen and the slowing growth in China.

   Foreign sentiment toward Asia has turned bleaker in the last two
weeks, with the slide in the yen's value. Japan's economic ills
have dire implications because many analysts regard it as the
locomotive that could propel Asia's recovery.

   ``Right now, the locomotive is in the rail yard,'' Margolis
said.

   Hard times have also aggravated political tensions, fracturing a
public consensus that favored aggressive, growth-oriented policies
_ even if that meant sacrificing political liberties. In South
Korea, tens of thousands of workers walked off their jobs late last
month to protest impending layoffs.

   In Hong Kong, a noisy crowd of 200 apartment owners marched on
the government to complain about the plunging value of real estate.

   In the most spectacular example, those tensions contributed in
Indonesia to the ouster last month of President Suharto, who had
ruled with an iron grip for more than three decades.

   While Malaysia's political situation appears more stable, some
analysts said it could be the next flash point, as Prime Minister
Mahathir Mohamad tries to salvage an ambitious development program
in a collapsing economy. Malaysia shares Indonesia's problem of
latent tension between a native majority and ethnic Chinese, a
minority of the population who control a large portion of the
economy.

   Even in South Korea and Thailand, where leaders identified with
discredited practices were swept out in favor of reform-minded
politicians, tensions remain. Political leaders face a backlash
from a public desperate for relief from economic pain. Given
younger Asians' limited experience with bad times, it is perhaps no
surprise that the leaders have few remedies.

   ``They've never had to face this kind of thing before in Asia,''
said David K.P. Li, the chairman of the Bank of East Asia here.

   Sometimes it seems that the politicians cannot do anything
right. In Hong Kong, the administration announced a seven-point
stimulus package that aims to bolster tourism and soothe the
property market. Critics, including Li, derided the measures as
``too little, too late.'' In Malaysia, Mahathir criticized the
nation's central bank for setting interest rates too high, which he
said strangled the economy. But he was contradicted by his own
deputy prime minister, Anwar Ibrahim.

   nn

   Much of the tension can be traced to the role played by the
International Monetary Fund, which has put together more than $100
million in rescue packages for Indonesia, South Korea and Thailand.
Far from being viewed as a neutral disburser of funds, the IMF is
often seen as a sort of fifth column _ blamed for everything from
high interest rates to the mayhem in Jakarta.

   The fund's defenders say it has succeeded in forcing countries
like South Korea and Thailand to purge such excesses as unregulated
banks and ``crony capitalism,'' in which the well-connected receive
sweetheart deals. Under pressure from the IMF, even Indonesia's new
president, B.J. Habibie, is going after the excesses of his
predecessor, Suharto.

   ``Koreans who know better know that without the IMF, the
government would have had to declare a moratorium,'' said Richard
Samuelson, executive director of SBC Warburg Dillon Read in Seoul.

   But critics said the fund's fiscal and monetary prescriptions _
which favor high interest rates and stable exchange rates, even at
the cost of recession _ are strangling some Asian economies by
choking off credit.

   ``A lot of people are questioning whether the IMF's policy is
squeezing the economy dry,'' said an executive at a major Thai
bank, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``You're no longer just
squeezing the cronies,'' he said. ``You're making it impossible for
normal businessmen to do business.''

   In South Korea, the IMF has been unable to stanch the flow of
loans from banks to the country's troubled conglomerates. Analysts
warn that these infusions could land Korea in a domestic version of
the foreign debt crisis that precipitated its near-collapse last
year. They said the bad loans held by Korean banks could reach $90
billion by the end of the year, up from $50 billion at the end of
1997.

   Few people disagree about the need for drastic reform in
Indonesia. Since Suharto's ouster, the country's shattered economy
has barely resumed functioning. Before Indonesia can even address
its structural problems, economists said it must insure that basic
commodities like rice, fuel, cooking oil and sugar are being
delivered to stores.

   ``This is not just an economic but a political issue,'' said
Mari Pangetsu, executive director of the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a research center in Jakarta. Ms. Pangetsu
warned that without basic commodities, Indonesia was ripe for
another eruption of mob violence.

   The IMF recently announced that it would resume payments to
Indonesia under a rescue program worth more than $40 billion. And
last week, the country announced it had reached an agreement with a
consortium of foreign banks to stretch out its repayment of about
$80 billion in foreign-currency loans owned by private companies.

   Still, the country's ability to complete the structural reforms
it has promised to the IMF remains in question, given Habibie's
struggle to consolidate power in the face of opposition from
students and a restive military.

   Even if the government is able to pursue its economic program
without further disruption, the economy could contract as much as
25 percent this year, according to some forecasts. Certain sectors
_ the fledgling auto industry is a prime example _ have stopped
producing altogether.

   If Indonesia represents one pole of the Asian crisis, its
next-door neighbor, Singapore, would seem to represent the other.
With political calm and a stable currency, the prosperous
city-state has few of Indonesia's weaknesses. Yet Singapore's
growth has slowed dramatically, and some analysts predict that even
there, the economy will move into reverse by the end of the year.

   Taiwan and the Philippines have also been bright spots in the
Asian gloom. But they may not be able to continue defying the odds.
The Taiwan stock market tumbled last week amid fears of a slump in
the global semiconductor business, one of the island's biggest
industries.

   And analysts are scrutinizing the newly elected president of the
Philippines, Joseph Estrada, a former movie actor, to see whether
his reputation as a man of the people will extend to a
free-spending economic policy.

   Asian political leaders have been frustrated by their inability
to stem the tide of events. Nowhere is this more apparent than in
Hong Kong, the former British colony, now under Chinese control,
that is at the crossroads of Asian trade.

   Hong Kong has huge foreign-exchange reserves, solid banks and
the most stable currency in the region. Yet it is now suffering
many of the ills that afflict less healthy Asian economies _ chief
among them slumping trade. With anemic demand for its products and
a weakening yen that undercuts its competitiveness, Hong Kong can
do little to revive exports, which are the engine of its economy.

   ``Every Mercedes-Benz that we buy must be financed through
export earnings,'' said Jan Lee, chief economist here of the
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank.

   Worse, Hong Kong's long-term growth is tied inextricably to
growth in China. While the mainland c grew at an average annual
rate of 11.1 percent between 1992 and 1996, the economy is tailing
off there, too. Few economists expect China to achieve its 8
percent growth target for 1998, and there is concern that, despite
repeated promises to the contrary, Chinese officials might feel
forced to devalue the renminbi, sending other currencies plunging.

   For the immediate future, though, Japan may be the single
biggest determinant of how long Asia's torment will last. Without a
revival of consumer spending in Japan, analysts say, exports in the
rest of Asia will continue to sag. And the weaker yen will continue
to hobble other currencies.

   ``If Japan doesn't solve its problems, the region is in big
trouble,'' said Rajiv Malik, a regional economist at Jardine
Fleming International Securities in Singapore. ``America thought
Korea was a problem, but Japan is like a bomb a hundred times more
powerful than Korea.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0267 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:15 ',
			header: '
A5322 &Cx1f; taf-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PAKISTAN-NUKE-NYT &LR;      06-11 0610
',
			slug: ' BC-PAKISTAN-NUKE-NYT ',
			headline: '
PAKISTAN, FACING SANCTIONS, URGES CITIZEN CUTBACKS 
',
			trailer: '
   ISLAMABAD, Pakistan _ With the economy facing sanctions because
of the government's nuclear tests, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on
Thursday called on Pakistanis to tighten their belts.

   ``We have to pay a heavy price,'' he warned in a televised
address to the nation.

   Sharif called for selling his palatial government offices and
asked Pakistanis to drink less tea and to skimp on cooking oil.

   Most strikingly, Sharif said, his government will confiscate
more than 1 million acres of farmland from feudal lords and
redistribute the acreage to peasants and tenant farmers.

   The economy is already faltering, and sanctions threaten much of
the aid that Pakistan receives from the World Bank and
International Monetary Fund, as well as from the United States,
Japan and other countries.

   Pakistan also formally announced a moratorium on nuclear tests
Thursday and invited India to join it as a ``confidence-building
measure'' to reduce tensions. The two countries, old enemies, have
been tense since India and then Pakistan set off nuclear explosions
last month.

   ``The government of Pakistan has decided to announce a
unilateral moratorium on nuclear testing,'' the statement, from the
Foreign Ministry, said. ``We are ready to engage constructively
with India and other members of the international community to
formalize this arrangement.''

   In his address, the prime minister struck a patriotic and
populist note, offering Pakistanis ``congratulations on achieving
this honor'' _ becoming a nuclear power _ and linking the paring
down of the economy to changes like land redistribution and the
development of cottage industries for unemployed young people.

   The vast stretches of farmland that the government plans to
seize, Sharif said, were given to the landlords ``for betraying the
nation in favor of the British'' in colonial days, and some of the
lands have remained in family ownership despite previous efforts at
land reform.

   ``We have identified all these lands which are occupied
illegitimately,'' the prime minister said. ``The land should belong
to those who grow on it with their sweat.''

   Sharif, a scion of a wealthy but self-made family of
industrialists, is the first prime minister who is not from the
feudal class that has long dominated politics. That class includes
his rival, former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, whose family has
large landholdings in Sindh province.

   The economy's biggest problem, Sharif said, was agriculture,
which has been stagnant for years. All he asked of tenant farmers
and peasants who would receive the farmland was that they turn
Pakistan ``into a granary.''

   The prime minister said he would set an example by turning over
his family's assets to banks to pay off outstanding business loans.
He would do that, he announced, even though the debts had been
incurred because of what he said were punitive government maneuvers
against his family when Ms. Bhutto was in power. He described that
time in considerable, and bitter, detail.

   His government, Sharif said, would halve expenses. It would not
buy more cars, refrigerators, furniture or air conditioners, he
said; it would not hold receptions in hotels, and it would use only
half as much paper.

   Government guest houses in provincial capitals and other
government buildings would be sold, including the prime minister's
Secretariat, a new sparkling white and imposing building. It was
not clear who might want it or what it could be used for.
',
			body: '


  (lb) 
 By JOHN KIFNER   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   ISLAMABAD, Pakistan _ With the economy facing sanctions because
of the government's nuclear tests, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on
Thursday called on Pakistanis to tighten their belts.

   ``We have to pay a heavy price,'' he warned in a televised
address to the nation.

   Sharif called for selling his palatial government offices and
asked Pakistanis to drink less tea and to skimp on cooking oil.

   Most strikingly, Sharif said, his government will confiscate
more than 1 million acres of farmland from feudal lords and
redistribute the acreage to peasants and tenant farmers.

   The economy is already faltering, and sanctions threaten much of
the aid that Pakistan receives from the World Bank and
International Monetary Fund, as well as from the United States,
Japan and other countries.

   Pakistan also formally announced a moratorium on nuclear tests
Thursday and invited India to join it as a ``confidence-building
measure'' to reduce tensions. The two countries, old enemies, have
been tense since India and then Pakistan set off nuclear explosions
last month.

   ``The government of Pakistan has decided to announce a
unilateral moratorium on nuclear testing,'' the statement, from the
Foreign Ministry, said. ``We are ready to engage constructively
with India and other members of the international community to
formalize this arrangement.''

   In his address, the prime minister struck a patriotic and
populist note, offering Pakistanis ``congratulations on achieving
this honor'' _ becoming a nuclear power _ and linking the paring
down of the economy to changes like land redistribution and the
development of cottage industries for unemployed young people.

   The vast stretches of farmland that the government plans to
seize, Sharif said, were given to the landlords ``for betraying the
nation in favor of the British'' in colonial days, and some of the
lands have remained in family ownership despite previous efforts at
land reform.

   ``We have identified all these lands which are occupied
illegitimately,'' the prime minister said. ``The land should belong
to those who grow on it with their sweat.''

   Sharif, a scion of a wealthy but self-made family of
industrialists, is the first prime minister who is not from the
feudal class that has long dominated politics. That class includes
his rival, former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, whose family has
large landholdings in Sindh province.

   The economy's biggest problem, Sharif said, was agriculture,
which has been stagnant for years. All he asked of tenant farmers
and peasants who would receive the farmland was that they turn
Pakistan ``into a granary.''

   The prime minister said he would set an example by turning over
his family's assets to banks to pay off outstanding business loans.
He would do that, he announced, even though the debts had been
incurred because of what he said were punitive government maneuvers
against his family when Ms. Bhutto was in power. He described that
time in considerable, and bitter, detail.

   His government, Sharif said, would halve expenses. It would not
buy more cars, refrigerators, furniture or air conditioners, he
said; it would not hold receptions in hotels, and it would use only
half as much paper.

   Government guest houses in provincial capitals and other
government buildings would be sold, including the prime minister's
Secretariat, a new sparkling white and imposing building. It was
not clear who might want it or what it could be used for.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0268 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:16 ',
			header: '
A5324 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-RAY-EXHIBIT-ART-735&AMP;A     06-11 1241
',
			slug: ' BC-RAY-EXHIBIT-ART-735&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
CHARLES RAY: SENDING UP FASHION, SEX, ART AND HIS OWN PERSONA 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ It happened the other day that I was walking through
the Charles Ray exhibition at the Whitney at the same time as a
couple of hardy older women (not the type of ladies who lunch), and
they looked as if they had wandered by mistake from the Andrew
Wyeth show downstairs, unsure of what they had stumbled onto.

   They peered at a bathtub of black ink, and a big black cube also
filled with ink, but not so that you could tell that it wasn't
solid _ a trick of the eye. They circled a chair split across its
legs by a big sheet of glass, and stuck their noses into a steel
box (titled ``32 x 33 x 35 (EQUALS) 34 x 33 x 35'') that had its
bottom dug into the floor, making its proportions deceptively
askew.

   You could see the women were getting ready to shuffle off, but
then they came to Ray's ``Male Mannequin,'' which is what it sounds
like except that the custom-made mannequin has very real-looking
genitals, and suddenly the two of them laughed.

   From then on you could hear them through the galleries, the
volume of their laughter rising until the three of us cheerfully
sat through Ray's cockamamie film, ``Fashions,'' while a dozen
other people wandered in and out of the room, stupefied.

   What can I say? This is the thing about humor, isn't it? You get
it or you don't. Having liked the occasional piece by Ray, I was a
little sorry the show didn't add up to more, but the women had what
seems to me the right attitude toward it.

   The art world tends to take itself way too seriously. For proof
you might read the show's catalog, in which ``Oh! Charley, Charley,
Charley ...'' (eight nude mannequinlike sculptures of himself
masturbating one another) is compared to Rodin's ``Burghers of
Calais.''

   I don't think so.

   Ray, at 45, belongs to a crop of Los Angeles artists who have
redefined American art in the '90s. Several years ago he was in
``Helter Skelter,'' an important, if somewhat alarming, show in the
Temporary Contemporary of the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary
Art, which identified this new strain of Los Angeles art: perverse,
surreal, sophomoric, violent. It was organized by Paul Schimmel,
who put together this Ray retrospective.

   Compared with a lot of what was on view in ``Helter Skelter,''
Ray's mannequins seemed almost endearing. One, of a woman nearly 8
feet tall, was displayed by itself so that her height didn't become
obvious until you got up close. A different mannequin, a
self-portrait in glasses, windbreaker and sailor's cap, celebrated
Ray as geek. It was amusing, at least.

   Mannequins are nothing new to art. Hans Bellmer, Atget, de
Chirico and others exploited their weirdness around three-quarters
of a century ago, but Ray brings a new straight-faced humor to
them, and his works inevitably appear in an art context altered
since the days of de Chirico.

   A sculpture like ``Oh! Charley ...,'' with its repeated form of
the nude Ray, is now seen not just in terms of '60s body art but
also against the backdrop of minimalist serialism. His ``Ink Box''
exists in parodic relation to Donald Judd's minimalist cubes. His
sculpture of a pudgy child the size of a man, a Hitler youth in
baby-blue jumper, can summon to mind a pop allusion, like the
trademark figure on the Bob's Big Boy restaurants.

   Some of his other works, which don't involve mannequins, depend
on gags that relate to still more modern artists. Photographing
himself in various changes of clothes, Ray suggests the work of
'60s feminists like Eleanor Antin. Constructing sculptures of
tables with motorized bowls and glasses that slowly revolve, he can
make you think of Giorgio Morandi or even (absurdly) the American
still-life painter William Bailey.

   His latest, biggest work, ``Unpainted Sculpture,'' which
reproduces in gray Fiberglas a wrecked Pontiac, evokes John
Chamberlain's sculptures of crushed cars and, less obviously,
Anthony Caro's metal abstractions. I thought of the photographer
Thomas Demand, who remakes objects in old photographs to photograph
the duplicates, blurring the line between what's true and not.

   Call this hothouse culture. The inbred nature of contemporary
art (like all rarefied disciplines, I suppose) is to rely on shared
knowledge. With it you're in; without it you're not. Ray's art,
beyond the slapstick, is about other art to a degree that will
baffle anyone who doesn't understand his references.

   That is, much of its currency involves a link to topics like
surrealism, the body, sexuality, which in turn relates it to the
works of artists like Bruce Nauman, Chris Burden or Robert Gober.
It depends on an architecture of allusions: Much of the text in the
catalog, for instance, focuses on the surreptitious abstraction of
Ray's art, its formal debt to artists like Caro.

   This is fine, but allusion is pretty flimsy stuff on which to
base art in the end. You see Ray's ``32 x 33 x 35 (EQUALS) 34 x 33
x 35.'' You understand the reference to Judd. Then what? His
mannequins are too often one-liners, his tricks of the eye funny
and very clever, but of diminishing effect.

   There's also something dicey about using an actual car wreck in
which someone died to connect to the history of modernist
sculpture, although this sculpture does have a ghostly resonance
that lifts it ultimately above the level of voyeurism.

   For me the best art by Ray combines his strange wit with a
hangdog humanity, a quality that seems his truest virtue. His
photographs of himself, for instance, look calculatedly, touchingly
ridiculous. He's the nerd with the pocket protector, Harold Lloyd
dangling from the clock, one of the guys in ``The Full Monty.'' We
sympathize.

   His ``Ink Box'' is a schoolboy prank pushed to theatrical
lengths, an absurdist tour de force, like his ``Puzzle Bottle,'' a
tiny sculptured self-portrait in a bottle, a childhood hobby made
into an existential stunt and miraculously done.

   I heard the two women say, on leaving, that their favorite work
was ``Fashions,'' a 12-minute 16-millimeter film, in the style of
'60s home movies, during which a mannish woman, with arm tattooed,
models 100 spectacularly awful outfits that Ray made: gray
lederhosen with silk blouse, fire-engine-red gown bound by wrapping
tape, tiger-print dress with hole at the bosom, checked-tablecloth
skirt, towel toga.

   Star Trek meets Commes des Garcons here, with the deadpan model,
like a mannequin, spinning around and around on a turntable.

   That the film, like the model, goes absolutely nowhere is the
point, I think: It's an old comedic idea that a bad joke repeated
often enough becomes funny.

   Not everyone will find it so, but I'm with the women. I exited
laughing.

   ``Charles Ray'' remains on view at the Whitney Museum of
American Art, 945 Madison Ave., at 75th Street, New York, through
Aug. 30. It goes to Los Angeles in November and Chicago in June
1999.
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: Calif., Ill.)  (Eds: The word EQUALS in parentheses has been used twice instead of
the symbol, which is non-transmittable to many newspaper systems.) 
(ART ADV: Photo is being sent to NYT photo clients. Non-subscribers
can make individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(lb) 
 By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ It happened the other day that I was walking through
the Charles Ray exhibition at the Whitney at the same time as a
couple of hardy older women (not the type of ladies who lunch), and
they looked as if they had wandered by mistake from the Andrew
Wyeth show downstairs, unsure of what they had stumbled onto.

   They peered at a bathtub of black ink, and a big black cube also
filled with ink, but not so that you could tell that it wasn't
solid _ a trick of the eye. They circled a chair split across its
legs by a big sheet of glass, and stuck their noses into a steel
box (titled ``32 x 33 x 35 (EQUALS) 34 x 33 x 35'') that had its
bottom dug into the floor, making its proportions deceptively
askew.

   You could see the women were getting ready to shuffle off, but
then they came to Ray's ``Male Mannequin,'' which is what it sounds
like except that the custom-made mannequin has very real-looking
genitals, and suddenly the two of them laughed.

   From then on you could hear them through the galleries, the
volume of their laughter rising until the three of us cheerfully
sat through Ray's cockamamie film, ``Fashions,'' while a dozen
other people wandered in and out of the room, stupefied.

   What can I say? This is the thing about humor, isn't it? You get
it or you don't. Having liked the occasional piece by Ray, I was a
little sorry the show didn't add up to more, but the women had what
seems to me the right attitude toward it.

   The art world tends to take itself way too seriously. For proof
you might read the show's catalog, in which ``Oh! Charley, Charley,
Charley ...'' (eight nude mannequinlike sculptures of himself
masturbating one another) is compared to Rodin's ``Burghers of
Calais.''

   I don't think so.

   Ray, at 45, belongs to a crop of Los Angeles artists who have
redefined American art in the '90s. Several years ago he was in
``Helter Skelter,'' an important, if somewhat alarming, show in the
Temporary Contemporary of the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary
Art, which identified this new strain of Los Angeles art: perverse,
surreal, sophomoric, violent. It was organized by Paul Schimmel,
who put together this Ray retrospective.

   Compared with a lot of what was on view in ``Helter Skelter,''
Ray's mannequins seemed almost endearing. One, of a woman nearly 8
feet tall, was displayed by itself so that her height didn't become
obvious until you got up close. A different mannequin, a
self-portrait in glasses, windbreaker and sailor's cap, celebrated
Ray as geek. It was amusing, at least.

   Mannequins are nothing new to art. Hans Bellmer, Atget, de
Chirico and others exploited their weirdness around three-quarters
of a century ago, but Ray brings a new straight-faced humor to
them, and his works inevitably appear in an art context altered
since the days of de Chirico.

   A sculpture like ``Oh! Charley ...,'' with its repeated form of
the nude Ray, is now seen not just in terms of '60s body art but
also against the backdrop of minimalist serialism. His ``Ink Box''
exists in parodic relation to Donald Judd's minimalist cubes. His
sculpture of a pudgy child the size of a man, a Hitler youth in
baby-blue jumper, can summon to mind a pop allusion, like the
trademark figure on the Bob's Big Boy restaurants.

   Some of his other works, which don't involve mannequins, depend
on gags that relate to still more modern artists. Photographing
himself in various changes of clothes, Ray suggests the work of
'60s feminists like Eleanor Antin. Constructing sculptures of
tables with motorized bowls and glasses that slowly revolve, he can
make you think of Giorgio Morandi or even (absurdly) the American
still-life painter William Bailey.

   His latest, biggest work, ``Unpainted Sculpture,'' which
reproduces in gray Fiberglas a wrecked Pontiac, evokes John
Chamberlain's sculptures of crushed cars and, less obviously,
Anthony Caro's metal abstractions. I thought of the photographer
Thomas Demand, who remakes objects in old photographs to photograph
the duplicates, blurring the line between what's true and not.

   Call this hothouse culture. The inbred nature of contemporary
art (like all rarefied disciplines, I suppose) is to rely on shared
knowledge. With it you're in; without it you're not. Ray's art,
beyond the slapstick, is about other art to a degree that will
baffle anyone who doesn't understand his references.

   That is, much of its currency involves a link to topics like
surrealism, the body, sexuality, which in turn relates it to the
works of artists like Bruce Nauman, Chris Burden or Robert Gober.
It depends on an architecture of allusions: Much of the text in the
catalog, for instance, focuses on the surreptitious abstraction of
Ray's art, its formal debt to artists like Caro.

   This is fine, but allusion is pretty flimsy stuff on which to
base art in the end. You see Ray's ``32 x 33 x 35 (EQUALS) 34 x 33
x 35.'' You understand the reference to Judd. Then what? His
mannequins are too often one-liners, his tricks of the eye funny
and very clever, but of diminishing effect.

   There's also something dicey about using an actual car wreck in
which someone died to connect to the history of modernist
sculpture, although this sculpture does have a ghostly resonance
that lifts it ultimately above the level of voyeurism.

   For me the best art by Ray combines his strange wit with a
hangdog humanity, a quality that seems his truest virtue. His
photographs of himself, for instance, look calculatedly, touchingly
ridiculous. He's the nerd with the pocket protector, Harold Lloyd
dangling from the clock, one of the guys in ``The Full Monty.'' We
sympathize.

   His ``Ink Box'' is a schoolboy prank pushed to theatrical
lengths, an absurdist tour de force, like his ``Puzzle Bottle,'' a
tiny sculptured self-portrait in a bottle, a childhood hobby made
into an existential stunt and miraculously done.

   I heard the two women say, on leaving, that their favorite work
was ``Fashions,'' a 12-minute 16-millimeter film, in the style of
'60s home movies, during which a mannish woman, with arm tattooed,
models 100 spectacularly awful outfits that Ray made: gray
lederhosen with silk blouse, fire-engine-red gown bound by wrapping
tape, tiger-print dress with hole at the bosom, checked-tablecloth
skirt, towel toga.

   Star Trek meets Commes des Garcons here, with the deadpan model,
like a mannequin, spinning around and around on a turntable.

   That the film, like the model, goes absolutely nowhere is the
point, I think: It's an old comedic idea that a bad joke repeated
often enough becomes funny.

   Not everyone will find it so, but I'm with the women. I exited
laughing.

   ``Charles Ray'' remains on view at the Whitney Museum of
American Art, 945 Madison Ave., at 75th Street, New York, through
Aug. 30. It goes to Los Angeles in November and Chicago in June
1999.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0269 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:19 ',
			header: '
A5326 &Cx1f; tad-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-POLMONEY-HOUSE-COX &UR;  &UR; H     06-11 0665
',
			slug: ' BC-POLMONEY-HOUSE-COX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Republican House leaders won six more days of delay
Thursday in the House's slow-moving debate on campaign finance
reform.

   Resuming an off-again, on-again debate that the leaders
originally pledged to hold in March and then started in May, the
leaders adroitly confined this week's action to three hours of
debate after 8 p.m. Wednesday and a single vote early Thursday
afternoon.

   The leaders, who oppose tighter restrictions on campaign
finance, said they will let the debate resume next Wednesday.

   The Republican Party's annual Senate-House fund-raising dinner
will be the night before.

   ``It would take until 2025 to finish the bill at this rate,''
House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., told a news conference.

   In Thursday's only action, the House voted 345-29 against a
proposed constitutional amendment that would have given the federal
and state governments the power to limit political spending. Only
contributions can be limited under decisions of the Supreme Court.

   To protest the consumption of three hours of the House's limited
debate time for a measure that could not possibly obtain the
two-thirds margin necessary for changes in the Constitution, 51
Democrats voted ``present.''

   Votes on 11 alternative bills, plus a minimum of 258 proposed
amendments, lie ahead.

   ``There is a point where the word of our leadership needs to be
honored,'' protested Rep. Chris Shays, R-Conn., co-sponsor of a
bipartisan bill that would limit the size of contributions that can
be accepted by political parties. ``I hope we can expedite debate
and conclude our work to reform our campaign laws.''

   ``We will have that open and fair debate as long as it takes,
because I believe the people in this body are too cavalier with
America's freedom,'' responded Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas. He
said he introduced and then voted against the constitutional
amendment in order to dramatize his belief that limits on political
spending or contributions amount to unconstitutional limits on free
speech.

   (Story can end here. Optional add follows.)

   ``Every time the anti-reformers say `free speech,' they really
mean `big money,' '' charged Rep. Tim Allen, D-Maine, cosponsor of
another bipartisan bill.

   DeLay said Allen's point was contradicted by last week's
Democratic primary for California's governorship, in which
candidates who spent $20 million to $40 million apiece lost to one
who spent just over $10 million. ``This notion that money buys
races has been disproved time and time again,'' DeLay said.

   Shays told DeLay, ``The bottom line is that the corporations
that were being shaken down by the Nixon administration are telling
me now that they are being shaken down by both political parties in
soft money.''

   Challenged by DeLay to define ``shaken down,'' Shays said, ``A
shakedown is when leaders from both parties will call up a
corporation president and say, `We would like $200,000 or $200,000
or $300,000 or a half a million, and make it very clear to those
leaders that they can expect no action on their legislation unless
they get it.''

   Shays rejected DeLay's challenge to support his ``outrageous''
accusations against party leaders by naming names. DeLay declared,
``It is not a shakedown to get out and actively participate in the
process and ask people to participate in the process, whether it be
to ask them for one dollar or $100,000.''

   Betsy Palmer, an experienced congressional observer who reports
for the CQ Monitor newsletter, noted that the House, unlike the
Senate, almost always finishes its debates the week they begin.

   ``I've never seen anything like this,'' Palmer said. ``No one is
even sure if they can complete action by the Fourth of July
recess.''

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
',
			body: '

     HOUSE DELAYS CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORM
DEBATE SIX MORE DAYS
 &HT;     By ANDREW MOLLISON 
 &HT;     c.1998 Cox News Service  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Republican House leaders won six more days of delay
Thursday in the House's slow-moving debate on campaign finance
reform.

   Resuming an off-again, on-again debate that the leaders
originally pledged to hold in March and then started in May, the
leaders adroitly confined this week's action to three hours of
debate after 8 p.m. Wednesday and a single vote early Thursday
afternoon.

   The leaders, who oppose tighter restrictions on campaign
finance, said they will let the debate resume next Wednesday.

   The Republican Party's annual Senate-House fund-raising dinner
will be the night before.

   ``It would take until 2025 to finish the bill at this rate,''
House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., told a news conference.

   In Thursday's only action, the House voted 345-29 against a
proposed constitutional amendment that would have given the federal
and state governments the power to limit political spending. Only
contributions can be limited under decisions of the Supreme Court.

   To protest the consumption of three hours of the House's limited
debate time for a measure that could not possibly obtain the
two-thirds margin necessary for changes in the Constitution, 51
Democrats voted ``present.''

   Votes on 11 alternative bills, plus a minimum of 258 proposed
amendments, lie ahead.

   ``There is a point where the word of our leadership needs to be
honored,'' protested Rep. Chris Shays, R-Conn., co-sponsor of a
bipartisan bill that would limit the size of contributions that can
be accepted by political parties. ``I hope we can expedite debate
and conclude our work to reform our campaign laws.''

   ``We will have that open and fair debate as long as it takes,
because I believe the people in this body are too cavalier with
America's freedom,'' responded Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas. He
said he introduced and then voted against the constitutional
amendment in order to dramatize his belief that limits on political
spending or contributions amount to unconstitutional limits on free
speech.

   (Story can end here. Optional add follows.)

   ``Every time the anti-reformers say `free speech,' they really
mean `big money,' '' charged Rep. Tim Allen, D-Maine, cosponsor of
another bipartisan bill.

   DeLay said Allen's point was contradicted by last week's
Democratic primary for California's governorship, in which
candidates who spent $20 million to $40 million apiece lost to one
who spent just over $10 million. ``This notion that money buys
races has been disproved time and time again,'' DeLay said.

   Shays told DeLay, ``The bottom line is that the corporations
that were being shaken down by the Nixon administration are telling
me now that they are being shaken down by both political parties in
soft money.''

   Challenged by DeLay to define ``shaken down,'' Shays said, ``A
shakedown is when leaders from both parties will call up a
corporation president and say, `We would like $200,000 or $200,000
or $300,000 or a half a million, and make it very clear to those
leaders that they can expect no action on their legislation unless
they get it.''

   Shays rejected DeLay's challenge to support his ``outrageous''
accusations against party leaders by naming names. DeLay declared,
``It is not a shakedown to get out and actively participate in the
process and ask people to participate in the process, whether it be
to ask them for one dollar or $100,000.''

   Betsy Palmer, an experienced congressional observer who reports
for the CQ Monitor newsletter, noted that the House, unlike the
Senate, almost always finishes its debates the week they begin.

   ``I've never seen anything like this,'' Palmer said. ``No one is
even sure if they can complete action by the Fourth of July
recess.''

   &UR; (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0270 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:20 ',
			header: '
A5328 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MATTER-ART-REVIEW-NYT     06-11 0899
',
			slug: ' BC-MATTER-ART-REVIEW-NYT ',
			headline: '
HERBERT MATTER: DEDICATED TO ART AND OTHER ARTISTS
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Were they ever that young? There's Willem de Kooning
sitting on the floor, propped up against a bed with his feet
crossed and knees clasped, with a black knit cap and a stunned,
starry-eyed expression. Next to him on the floor is Franz Kline, a
laughing walrus. In another picture Mark Rothko worries.

   There is Alexander Calder posing with a smoking cigarette,
smiling slightly with dirty teeth. In another shot Jackson Pollock
stands in a field, plump and wholesome in a ribbed T-shirt with a
hawk on his wrist.

   ``That was a nasty bird,'' Mercedes Matter recalled at the
opening of the Herbert Matter retrospective at the Staley-Wise
Gallery. ``That bird used to sit on Pollock's dog's nose and eat
his food while the dog was trying to eat.''

   In putting together two very similar exhibitions of her late
husband's work, one at Staley-Wise, the other at the New York
Studio School of Drawing, Painting and Sculpture, Ms. Matter, a
painter and a founder of the Studio School, intentionally left out
some of the work for which Matter, a photographer and graphic
designer, is best known: his Constructivist posters for the Swiss
Tourist office, his geometric logo for the New Haven Railroad and
his clever advertisement of a chimney sweep curled up in Eero
Saarinen's womb chair. She wants the world to forget his commercial
work for a moment and look at him in a different way. ``He didn't
like fashion or anything to do with it,'' Ms. Matter said,
suggesting that what he cared about was art.

   Both shows include Matter's abstract photographs, his studies of
lichen-frosted rocks in Maine, his pictures of Brazil, his
landscapes of Switzerland, his portraits of artists. Both have a
wonderful worm's eye view of a ship's hull, a sexy loaf of bread
with mammillary knots and many nudes of a woman who looks like a
sultry sea creature, sleeping in sand and driftwood, wrapped in her
own hair and shadows.

   What comes through in these photographs is a love of abstract
forms but, even more, a great affection for the artists Matter
knew. Indeed, the most touching legacy of Matter (1907-1984) may
have been the work he did in the service of other artists.

   On his 77th birthday, the last day he was fully conscious, Ms.
Matter said, he was worrying about a project he had begun decades
earlier, a book on the painter and sculptor Alberto Giacometti. In
1960 Matter visited Giacometti's Paris studio to take some
pictures. When Giacometti saw them, he saw his own work in a new
way and asked Matter to take more pictures. By the end of his life,
Matter was so immersed in Giacometti's work that his last words,
Ms. Matter said, were some instructions for the book, ``Alberto
Giacometti.''

   It shows in the photographs. The pictures of Giacometti and his
work, in the Studio School show, are particularly affecting. The
first picture in a sequence shows Giacometti smoking and looking
tenderly at the hand-size clay head he is working on, as if he is
just about to offer it a puff. In the second frame he smiles and
tweaks its nose. In the third, he cuddles the whole head in his two
hands. In the last frame he has the poor thing in a choke hold.

   Matter, who studied painting with Fernand Leger and Amedee
Ozenfant in Paris and was friends with Pollock, Calder and de
Kooning, seemed to revel in the private victories of other artists.
Calder, who Ms. Matter recalls was ``unintellectual, witty,
delightful and often sleepy,'' is shown in one of Matter's pictures
at the Studio School with pliers in his hands and wire coiled
around his arm and shoulder like a fireman's hose. In another, he
appears to be playing a set of drums that on closer inspection turn
out to be silhouettes of metal disks and wires he was working on.

   A series of Hans Hofmann at work shows him in the first frame
with a bouquet of brushes in his left hand and in his right a
single brush he has plucked from the bunch. Then he is caught
bending down, stepping back and finally admiring his work with a
look that says, ``Ah, just right!''

   What did Matter learn from the painters in return? In the
1940's, he seemed to go through an Abstract Expressionist phase.
One photograph he took of gray silty puddles in the shallow hollows
of some smooth white rocks, at the Staley-Wise Gallery, could
almost have been painted. A series of solarized pictures of tree
bark curled up on a white surface look like brush strokes. In the
1970s Matter's abstractions were simpler. He focused on the rocks
of Maine with their sinuous shadows and their jagged white coatings
of lichen, and he lavished considerable attention on a black
umbrella that had met its end in a windstorm.

   But Matter's most memorable pictures are his portraits of
artists. In one, Leger, his hair parted in the middle, his face
half in shadow, looks solemnly at his former student as if he were
regarding his own reflection. The photographer is invisible in his
own work.

   Herbert Matter: A 50-Year Retrospective is at the Staley-Wise
Gallery, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, through July 11.
``Herbert Matter, 1907-1984'' will be at the New York Studio School
of Drawing, Painting and Sculpture, 8 W. 8th St., Greenwich
Village, through June 27.
',
			body: '


    (ja) 
 By SARAH BOXER   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Were they ever that young? There's Willem de Kooning
sitting on the floor, propped up against a bed with his feet
crossed and knees clasped, with a black knit cap and a stunned,
starry-eyed expression. Next to him on the floor is Franz Kline, a
laughing walrus. In another picture Mark Rothko worries.

   There is Alexander Calder posing with a smoking cigarette,
smiling slightly with dirty teeth. In another shot Jackson Pollock
stands in a field, plump and wholesome in a ribbed T-shirt with a
hawk on his wrist.

   ``That was a nasty bird,'' Mercedes Matter recalled at the
opening of the Herbert Matter retrospective at the Staley-Wise
Gallery. ``That bird used to sit on Pollock's dog's nose and eat
his food while the dog was trying to eat.''

   In putting together two very similar exhibitions of her late
husband's work, one at Staley-Wise, the other at the New York
Studio School of Drawing, Painting and Sculpture, Ms. Matter, a
painter and a founder of the Studio School, intentionally left out
some of the work for which Matter, a photographer and graphic
designer, is best known: his Constructivist posters for the Swiss
Tourist office, his geometric logo for the New Haven Railroad and
his clever advertisement of a chimney sweep curled up in Eero
Saarinen's womb chair. She wants the world to forget his commercial
work for a moment and look at him in a different way. ``He didn't
like fashion or anything to do with it,'' Ms. Matter said,
suggesting that what he cared about was art.

   Both shows include Matter's abstract photographs, his studies of
lichen-frosted rocks in Maine, his pictures of Brazil, his
landscapes of Switzerland, his portraits of artists. Both have a
wonderful worm's eye view of a ship's hull, a sexy loaf of bread
with mammillary knots and many nudes of a woman who looks like a
sultry sea creature, sleeping in sand and driftwood, wrapped in her
own hair and shadows.

   What comes through in these photographs is a love of abstract
forms but, even more, a great affection for the artists Matter
knew. Indeed, the most touching legacy of Matter (1907-1984) may
have been the work he did in the service of other artists.

   On his 77th birthday, the last day he was fully conscious, Ms.
Matter said, he was worrying about a project he had begun decades
earlier, a book on the painter and sculptor Alberto Giacometti. In
1960 Matter visited Giacometti's Paris studio to take some
pictures. When Giacometti saw them, he saw his own work in a new
way and asked Matter to take more pictures. By the end of his life,
Matter was so immersed in Giacometti's work that his last words,
Ms. Matter said, were some instructions for the book, ``Alberto
Giacometti.''

   It shows in the photographs. The pictures of Giacometti and his
work, in the Studio School show, are particularly affecting. The
first picture in a sequence shows Giacometti smoking and looking
tenderly at the hand-size clay head he is working on, as if he is
just about to offer it a puff. In the second frame he smiles and
tweaks its nose. In the third, he cuddles the whole head in his two
hands. In the last frame he has the poor thing in a choke hold.

   Matter, who studied painting with Fernand Leger and Amedee
Ozenfant in Paris and was friends with Pollock, Calder and de
Kooning, seemed to revel in the private victories of other artists.
Calder, who Ms. Matter recalls was ``unintellectual, witty,
delightful and often sleepy,'' is shown in one of Matter's pictures
at the Studio School with pliers in his hands and wire coiled
around his arm and shoulder like a fireman's hose. In another, he
appears to be playing a set of drums that on closer inspection turn
out to be silhouettes of metal disks and wires he was working on.

   A series of Hans Hofmann at work shows him in the first frame
with a bouquet of brushes in his left hand and in his right a
single brush he has plucked from the bunch. Then he is caught
bending down, stepping back and finally admiring his work with a
look that says, ``Ah, just right!''

   What did Matter learn from the painters in return? In the
1940's, he seemed to go through an Abstract Expressionist phase.
One photograph he took of gray silty puddles in the shallow hollows
of some smooth white rocks, at the Staley-Wise Gallery, could
almost have been painted. A series of solarized pictures of tree
bark curled up on a white surface look like brush strokes. In the
1970s Matter's abstractions were simpler. He focused on the rocks
of Maine with their sinuous shadows and their jagged white coatings
of lichen, and he lavished considerable attention on a black
umbrella that had met its end in a windstorm.

   But Matter's most memorable pictures are his portraits of
artists. In one, Leger, his hair parted in the middle, his face
half in shadow, looks solemnly at his former student as if he were
regarding his own reflection. The photographer is invisible in his
own work.

   Herbert Matter: A 50-Year Retrospective is at the Staley-Wise
Gallery, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, through July 11.
``Herbert Matter, 1907-1984'' will be at the New York Studio School
of Drawing, Painting and Sculpture, 8 W. 8th St., Greenwich
Village, through June 27.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0271 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:21 ',
			header: '
A5330 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-     06-11 0064
',
			slug: ' BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-HOLD-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   ATTN EDITORS:

   The Saint-Jean Ardieres, France-datelined story
BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-NYT, by Jere Longman has been HELD. Please
guard against premature release. We will send an advisory when the
story is released for publication.

   Repeat: BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-NYT is HELD.

   N.Y. Times News Service, June 11.
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATTN EDITORS:

   The Saint-Jean Ardieres, France-datelined story
BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-NYT, by Jere Longman has been HELD. Please
guard against premature release. We will send an advisory when the
story is released for publication.

   Repeat: BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-NYT is HELD.

   N.Y. Times News Service, June 11.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0272 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:21 ',
			header: '
A5331 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-     06-11 0064
',
			slug: ' BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-HOLD-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   ATTN EDITORS:

   The Saint-Jean Ardieres, France-datelined story
BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-NYT, by Jere Longman has been HELD. Please
guard against premature release. We will send an advisory when the
story is released for publication.

   Repeat: BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-NYT is HELD.

   N.Y. Times News Service, June 11.
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATTN EDITORS:

   The Saint-Jean Ardieres, France-datelined story
BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-NYT, by Jere Longman has been HELD. Please
guard against premature release. We will send an advisory when the
story is released for publication.

   Repeat: BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE-NYT is HELD.

   N.Y. Times News Service, June 11.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0273 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:30 ',
			header: '
A5339 &Cx1f; tad-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SPOT-BJT-FRIDAY0612     06-11 1180
',
			slug: ' BC-SPOT-BJT-FRIDAY ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   Eds: Adds: DRUG-TRIALS

   This is the Cox News Service spot news budget for Friday, April
3, 1998.

   Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. ET
Monday-Friday. Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.
Monday-Friday.

   If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456. The night news editor, until 10
p.m. ET, is Todd C. Duncan at 404-582-7282.

   With questions about Washington-originated material, please call
our Washington Bureau:

   News editor Art Dalglish, 202-887-8338.

   Foreign editor Rick Christie, 202-887-8316.

   Bureau chief Andy Alexander, 202-887-8334.

   INTERNATIONAL

   CLINTON-CHINA _ WASHINGTON _ Two weeks before he travels to
China, President Clinton said Thursday that Beijing must apologize
``sooner or later'' for its bloody crackdown on democracy advocates
nine years ago in Tiananmen Square. For him to shun an official
welcoming ceremony there two weeks from Saturday, however, would be
placing symbolism over substance in the important U.S.-China
relationship, he said in a major speech on China policy. (Deans,
Cox News Service)

   WASHINGTON

   POLMONEY-HOUSE _ WASHINGTON _ The House resumes debate on
campaign finance reform. (Mollison, Cox News Service).

   TOBACCO _ WASHINGTON _ One day after a Florida jury awarded more
than $1 million damages in smoker's lawsuit against a cigarette
company, the Senate turns Thursday to the question of liability
caps in the comprehensive tobacco bill. (Lipman, Cox News Service).

   AIR-PASSENGERS _ A House subcommittee holds a hearing on the
problem of passenger interference with flight crews and on
legislation to limit carry-on baggage on aircraft to one item.
(Abulhassan, Cox News Service).

   DRUG-TRIALS _ WASHINGTON _ The system that is supposed to
protect persons who volunteer to use experimental drugs or medical
devices for research projects has become ``brittle'' and has
started to crack, government investigators warned Thursday. A
Department of Health and Human Services told a House subcommittee
the committees that are supposed to oversee medical experiments on
human subjects are overworked and have too little time to actually
monitor the research they are charged with overseeing. (Nesmith,
Cox News Service 600).

   CENSUS-GINGRICH _ WASHINGTON _ Arguments are conducted Thursday
in a lawsuit by House Speaker Newt Gingrich seeking to prevent
Census Bureau from using sampling techniques in the 2000 Census.
(Sherman, Cox News Service).

   CHILD-LABOR _ WASHINGTON _ A Senate Labor subcommittee hearing
called by Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio, examines child labor practices
in the United States. (Joyce, Cox News Service).

   WOMAN-PRESIDENT _ WASHINGTON _ Marie Wilson, president of the
White House Project and the Ms. Foundation for Women, holds a
briefing to discuss a new public education campaign ``dedicated to
creating climate in American politics that will allow a qualified
woman to successfully run for the president within the next
decade.'' (Marselas, Cox News Service).

   APLUS _ Convinced that the education bill passed by the Senate
two months ago can't withstand a Democratic filibuster, Sen. Paul
Coverdell (R-Ga.) is negotiating with House and Senate leaders to
have his education savings account proposal tacked on to the
massive IRS reform bill now in conference committee. (Foskett, Cox
News Service)

   BARR _ CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa _ What is Bob Barr up to? A year ago
he was dismissed by many as the new Bob Dornan, but his talk of
impeachment proceedings no longer seems so far fetched. And, in a
surpise move, he will address the First in the Nation Gala in Cedar
Rapids tonight, an event filled with presidential aspirants. (Carr,
Cox News Service).

   NATIONAL

   TEXAS-KILL _ JASPER, Texas _ Trying for profiles of the victim
and the accused. (Mitchell, Lufkin Daily News)

   TEXAS-ARRIVALS _ JASPER, Texas _ We hear that Oprah may do a
show in Jasper, Geraldo may be on his way, Al Gore is coming and
Jesse Jackson is coming back. (Mitchell, Lufkin Daily News)

   BAPTIST _ SALT LAKE CITY _ Latest highlights from Southern
Baptist Convention meeting in Salt Lake City. Several resolutions
are expected to be voted on this morning, before ``Focus on the
Founder'' leader James Dobson speaks to the group. (White, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution)

   ORLANDO _ ORLANDO, Fla. _ Pat Robertson says Orlando should
watch out for floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, etc because it has
welcomed gays to Disney's gay days. What says Orlando? A
talk-of-the-town. (Williams, Atlanta Journal-Constitution)

   GM _ More on the strike. Workers at yet another Flint, Mich.,
plant might walk out tonight, creating more problems for the
world's largest automaker and its suppliers. We're also chasing
word that the Vandalia air bag plant is next in line to shut down
from lack of demand for parts. (Drummond, Dayton Daily News)

   JEWEL-GALAXY _ AUSTIN, Texas _ University of Texas astronomer
Fritz Benedict has been studying Galaxy NGC 4314 since 1980 for
clues to the formation of stars like our Sun. (Stanley, Austin
American-Statesman)

   FAGAN-TICKETSCAM _ MEMPHIS, Tenn. _ Federal agents are trying to
determine whether Stephen Fagan, in his final days as Dr. William
Martin, scammed a Memphis travel agent out of $50,000 worth of
airline tickets. The final purchases came on April 12, four days
before Fagan was arrested and charged with kidnapping his daughters
in Massachusetts 19 years ago. (Holland, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.

   OKEECHOBEE-PROBLEMS _ Egged on by a busload of outraged Treasure
Coast residents, water managers recently endorsed a plan to keep
Lake Okeechobee lower year-round and sharply reduce discharges of
polluted water into the St. Lucie River. But the proposal also
would spill more phosphorus-tainted water into the northern
Everglades. (King, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.

   TXBANS-FIREWORKS _ AUSTIN, Texas _ With the county so dry that
wildfires appear almost inevitable, Travis County Judge Bill
Aleshire declared an emergency outdoor burning ban _ prohibiting
fireworks and other flames that could scorch thousands of acres if
carelessly handled. Aleshire said if it doesn't rain soon and
often, the county commissioners will probably extend the ban
through the July 4 holiday. (Banta, Austin American-Statesman)
MOVED.

   TXAQUIFER-PROTECTED _ AUSTIN _ State environmental officials
want to toughen rules protecting the Edwards Aquifer, the source of
drinking water for 1.75 million people, from polluted runoff. The
proposed rules would affect thousands of acres in Central Texas,
and they've drawn fire from builders, who say the rules are too
strict and would add to the cost of housing. (Rivera, Austin
American-Statesman) MOVED.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 0612 &HT;    The Cox News Service spot news budget for Friday, June 12, 1998.
 &HT;    c.1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   Eds: Adds: DRUG-TRIALS

   This is the Cox News Service spot news budget for Friday, April
3, 1998.

   Separate feature and commentary budgets move at 10 a.m. ET
Monday-Friday. Separate sports and business budgets move at 5 p.m.
Monday-Friday.

   If you have questions or need a resend, please call CoxNet, the
Cox News Service, at 404-526-5456. The night news editor, until 10
p.m. ET, is Todd C. Duncan at 404-582-7282.

   With questions about Washington-originated material, please call
our Washington Bureau:

   News editor Art Dalglish, 202-887-8338.

   Foreign editor Rick Christie, 202-887-8316.

   Bureau chief Andy Alexander, 202-887-8334.

   INTERNATIONAL

   CLINTON-CHINA _ WASHINGTON _ Two weeks before he travels to
China, President Clinton said Thursday that Beijing must apologize
``sooner or later'' for its bloody crackdown on democracy advocates
nine years ago in Tiananmen Square. For him to shun an official
welcoming ceremony there two weeks from Saturday, however, would be
placing symbolism over substance in the important U.S.-China
relationship, he said in a major speech on China policy. (Deans,
Cox News Service)

   WASHINGTON

   POLMONEY-HOUSE _ WASHINGTON _ The House resumes debate on
campaign finance reform. (Mollison, Cox News Service).

   TOBACCO _ WASHINGTON _ One day after a Florida jury awarded more
than $1 million damages in smoker's lawsuit against a cigarette
company, the Senate turns Thursday to the question of liability
caps in the comprehensive tobacco bill. (Lipman, Cox News Service).

   AIR-PASSENGERS _ A House subcommittee holds a hearing on the
problem of passenger interference with flight crews and on
legislation to limit carry-on baggage on aircraft to one item.
(Abulhassan, Cox News Service).

   DRUG-TRIALS _ WASHINGTON _ The system that is supposed to
protect persons who volunteer to use experimental drugs or medical
devices for research projects has become ``brittle'' and has
started to crack, government investigators warned Thursday. A
Department of Health and Human Services told a House subcommittee
the committees that are supposed to oversee medical experiments on
human subjects are overworked and have too little time to actually
monitor the research they are charged with overseeing. (Nesmith,
Cox News Service 600).

   CENSUS-GINGRICH _ WASHINGTON _ Arguments are conducted Thursday
in a lawsuit by House Speaker Newt Gingrich seeking to prevent
Census Bureau from using sampling techniques in the 2000 Census.
(Sherman, Cox News Service).

   CHILD-LABOR _ WASHINGTON _ A Senate Labor subcommittee hearing
called by Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio, examines child labor practices
in the United States. (Joyce, Cox News Service).

   WOMAN-PRESIDENT _ WASHINGTON _ Marie Wilson, president of the
White House Project and the Ms. Foundation for Women, holds a
briefing to discuss a new public education campaign ``dedicated to
creating climate in American politics that will allow a qualified
woman to successfully run for the president within the next
decade.'' (Marselas, Cox News Service).

   APLUS _ Convinced that the education bill passed by the Senate
two months ago can't withstand a Democratic filibuster, Sen. Paul
Coverdell (R-Ga.) is negotiating with House and Senate leaders to
have his education savings account proposal tacked on to the
massive IRS reform bill now in conference committee. (Foskett, Cox
News Service)

   BARR _ CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa _ What is Bob Barr up to? A year ago
he was dismissed by many as the new Bob Dornan, but his talk of
impeachment proceedings no longer seems so far fetched. And, in a
surpise move, he will address the First in the Nation Gala in Cedar
Rapids tonight, an event filled with presidential aspirants. (Carr,
Cox News Service).

   NATIONAL

   TEXAS-KILL _ JASPER, Texas _ Trying for profiles of the victim
and the accused. (Mitchell, Lufkin Daily News)

   TEXAS-ARRIVALS _ JASPER, Texas _ We hear that Oprah may do a
show in Jasper, Geraldo may be on his way, Al Gore is coming and
Jesse Jackson is coming back. (Mitchell, Lufkin Daily News)

   BAPTIST _ SALT LAKE CITY _ Latest highlights from Southern
Baptist Convention meeting in Salt Lake City. Several resolutions
are expected to be voted on this morning, before ``Focus on the
Founder'' leader James Dobson speaks to the group. (White, Atlanta
Journal-Constitution)

   ORLANDO _ ORLANDO, Fla. _ Pat Robertson says Orlando should
watch out for floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, etc because it has
welcomed gays to Disney's gay days. What says Orlando? A
talk-of-the-town. (Williams, Atlanta Journal-Constitution)

   GM _ More on the strike. Workers at yet another Flint, Mich.,
plant might walk out tonight, creating more problems for the
world's largest automaker and its suppliers. We're also chasing
word that the Vandalia air bag plant is next in line to shut down
from lack of demand for parts. (Drummond, Dayton Daily News)

   JEWEL-GALAXY _ AUSTIN, Texas _ University of Texas astronomer
Fritz Benedict has been studying Galaxy NGC 4314 since 1980 for
clues to the formation of stars like our Sun. (Stanley, Austin
American-Statesman)

   FAGAN-TICKETSCAM _ MEMPHIS, Tenn. _ Federal agents are trying to
determine whether Stephen Fagan, in his final days as Dr. William
Martin, scammed a Memphis travel agent out of $50,000 worth of
airline tickets. The final purchases came on April 12, four days
before Fagan was arrested and charged with kidnapping his daughters
in Massachusetts 19 years ago. (Holland, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.

   OKEECHOBEE-PROBLEMS _ Egged on by a busload of outraged Treasure
Coast residents, water managers recently endorsed a plan to keep
Lake Okeechobee lower year-round and sharply reduce discharges of
polluted water into the St. Lucie River. But the proposal also
would spill more phosphorus-tainted water into the northern
Everglades. (King, Palm Beach Post) MOVED.

   TXBANS-FIREWORKS _ AUSTIN, Texas _ With the county so dry that
wildfires appear almost inevitable, Travis County Judge Bill
Aleshire declared an emergency outdoor burning ban _ prohibiting
fireworks and other flames that could scorch thousands of acres if
carelessly handled. Aleshire said if it doesn't rain soon and
often, the county commissioners will probably extend the ban
through the July 4 holiday. (Banta, Austin American-Statesman)
MOVED.

   TXAQUIFER-PROTECTED _ AUSTIN _ State environmental officials
want to toughen rules protecting the Edwards Aquifer, the source of
drinking water for 1.75 million people, from polluted runoff. The
proposed rules would affect thousands of acres in Central Texas,
and they've drawn fire from builders, who say the rules are too
strict and would add to the cost of housing. (Rivera, Austin
American-Statesman) MOVED.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0274 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:31 ',
			header: '
A5341 &Cx1f; tta-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-KOSOVO-NATO-ART-750(2     06-11 0807
',
			slug: ' BC-KOSOVO-NATO-ART-750(2TAKES)-NYT ',
			headline: '
NATO MINISTERS REQUEST CONTINGENCY PLANS FOR INTERVENTION IN
KOSOVO 
',
			trailer: '
   BRUSSELS, Belgium _ NATO defense ministers commissioned
contingency plans Thursday for bombing Serb military targets in
Kosovo and said they would stage a huge military exercise at
Serbia's doorstep as early as next week to give Yugoslav President
Slobodan Milosevic a taste of the power that could be turned on him
if he persists in attacks on the province.

   The demonstration of force, with simulated bombing and strafing
raids and mock troop deployments, will take place over Albanian and
Macedonian territory just across the border from Kosovo, the
province where an estimated 60,000 to 85,000 people have been
displaced by fighting in recent weeks.

   Defense ministers meeting at NATO headquarters in Brussels on
Thursday also ordered NATO military authorities to draw up
contingency plans for the possibility that NATO troops might
eventually be sent into Kosovo on peacekeeping missions, or to seal
off the border with Albania to keep the fighting from spreading
there.

   Russia and France, among other countries, are insisting that the
United Nations would have to authorize any use of force against the
Serbs, and getting that authorization could take time or even be
impossible.

   But, addressing the issue of the need for a U.N. blessing, U.S.
Defense Secretary William Cohen said, ``The United States does not
feel it's imperative. It's desirable, not imperative.''

   The allies said they ordered a multinational air show with as
many planes, helicopters and troops from as many nations as they
could muster on short notice, but military authorities provided few
details about the upcoming aerial sabre-rattling, which might take
place 35 miles from the Serbian border, well out of Milosevic's
earshot or sight. Whether the planes would use live ammunition or
bombs would depend on whether they could drop them on military
firing ranges in Albania or Macedonia, officers said.

   If Serb gunners fired at them during the demonstration, one NATO
expert said, allied planes could take measures in self-defense
under rules that have applied in Bosnia-Herzegovina and most of the
rest of what was Yugoslavia since the war there.

   NATO foreign ministers just two weeks ago had requested military
plans for ``preventive deployments'' of troops, not in Kosovo but
across the border in Albania and Macedonia.

   But German Defense Minister Volker Ruehe said Thursday that this
had been a waste of time and had not kept the Serbs from sealing
off the border between Kosovo and Albania and using tanks,
artillery and mortars to drive out the ethnic Albanian population
in the border area.

   ``We cannot afford any longer to focus on hollow solutions of
rather symbolic character like border securing missions in Albania
or Macedonia, thus sealing off Kosovo from the outside,'' Ruehe
said. ``What we now have to focus on in order to support the
ongoing political process is to elaborate credible military options
aiming at the core of the problem: the extensive use of violence by
Serbian security or military forces against the Albanian civil
population in Kosovo.''

   Milosevic and his generals got a sample of what NATO warplanes
could do during the war in Bosnia in 1995, when an American-led
campaign against Bosnian Serb targets, coupled with a successful
Croatian offensive on the ground, forced the Serbs to the peace
table.

   Asked what would make the Serb leadership take this new
demonstration seriously, one senior NATO military official said,
``Milosevic will see the air demonstration not as a show but as
planning for a real operation.''

   The decision to speed up NATO's planning for real operations,
according to officials here, complements economic sanctions imposed
by the United States and Europe earlier this week and diplomatic
efforts on several fronts.

   Foreign ministers from leading NATO countries, Russia and Japan
plan to meet in London on Friday to press for renewed political
negotiations between Milosevic and the Albanian leadership in
Kosovo under Ibrahim Rugova. The aim of the talks would be to stop
the fighting and to restore or strengthen the autonomy the province
had before Milosevic revoked it 1989.

   Russian President Boris Yeltsin also invited Milosevic to Moscow
next week for talks the allies hope will impress on the Serb leader
the seriousness of the international threats and force him to back
down before they have to make good on their threat to use force.

   nn

   The NATO ministers on Thursday condemned violence by both the
authorities in Belgrade and what they called ``Kosovar Albanian
extremists,'' though diplomats say all western countries and Russia
agree that the main responsibility for the fighting lies with
Belgrade.

   ``We directed the NATO military authorities, subject to the
agreement of the governments of Albania and the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, to conduct an appropriate air exercise in
these two countries as quickly as possible, with the aim of
demonstrating NATO's capability to project power rapidly into the
region,'' the ministers said in a communique.

   They also called for ``a full range of options'' to stop the
fighting and stabilize the situation on the ground in Kosovo and
prevent the violence from drawing in Albania, Macedonia, and
possibly even Greece and Turkey if things get out of hand.

   ``The military planning is already under way,'' a NATO official
said even before Thursday's decisions. But, he added, ``No country
has yet committed itself to go through with these options.''

   Britain has been trying to get approval for a U.N. Security
Council resolution that would authorize NATO to use force if
necessary to restore peace to Kosovo. The United States and France
have expressed support for the measure.

   Russia, which could veto the resolution and bar NATO bombing or
ground operations in the region unless the United States and other
countries were willing to go ahead anyway, says it is trying to use
its influence to get Milosevic to call off attacks in Kosovo, which
is home to about two million ethnic Albanians.

   France, in particular, has attached great significance to
keeping Russia involved in the peacemaking effort, though the
French, along with the Germans, also pressed for Thursday's
decision to go ahead with detailed military planning for the
worst-case scenario should diplomacy fail, as it did so often in
Bosnia.

   Whether France would support NATO military action in Kosovo if
Russia used its veto authority was a question nobody could answer
here Thursday.

   The NATO-led peacekeeping mission in Bosnia has about 35,000
troops, with about 150 warplanes from 10 nations in the area at its
disposition that could be used in the exercise.

   Any NATO air operations in Kosovo or elsewhere in Serbia,
officials traveling with Cohen said, would be commanded by American
officers and would involve American planes that have been operating
out of Italy. U.S. planes from the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean
would also be involved if the carrier U.S.S. Eisenhower, which left
Norfolk, Va., earlier this week, gets there in time for the
exercise.

   On German radio Thursday, Gen. Klaus-Dieter Naumann of Germany,
chairman of NATO's military committee, provided an idea of what
NATO might undertake if military intervention becomes necessary.

   ``If we were assigned the task of enforcing an end to the
fighting _ this naturally applies to both sides, the Serbs and ...
the Kosovo Liberation Army as it has recently been called _ we
could ensure that with air strikes, as we did in Bosnia,'' the
general said.

   Diplomats from the United States, Russia, Britain, France,
Germany and Italy agreed Wednesday in Paris that Serb forces, not
the rebels in Kosovo, were primarily responsible for the violence,
which has killed an estimated 250 to 300 people.

   Some Western officials said they expected foreign ministers
meeting Friday in London to establish a deadline for a withdrawal
of Serbian military and special police forces from Kosovo, for a
cease-fire there, and for a resumption of talks with Rugova.

   Last month, Milosevic began talks with Rugova after U.S. special
envoy Richard Holbrooke agreed to recommend that the United States
and its European allies delay imposition of economic sanctions
while negotiations were under way.

   After the talks were suspended following the start of Serb
military operations in Kosovo, the allies last Monday froze Serb
assets and banned all investment in Yugoslavia. &QL;
',
			body: '


  (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(th) 
 By CRAIG R. WHITNEY    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   BRUSSELS, Belgium _ NATO defense ministers commissioned
contingency plans Thursday for bombing Serb military targets in
Kosovo and said they would stage a huge military exercise at
Serbia's doorstep as early as next week to give Yugoslav President
Slobodan Milosevic a taste of the power that could be turned on him
if he persists in attacks on the province.

   The demonstration of force, with simulated bombing and strafing
raids and mock troop deployments, will take place over Albanian and
Macedonian territory just across the border from Kosovo, the
province where an estimated 60,000 to 85,000 people have been
displaced by fighting in recent weeks.

   Defense ministers meeting at NATO headquarters in Brussels on
Thursday also ordered NATO military authorities to draw up
contingency plans for the possibility that NATO troops might
eventually be sent into Kosovo on peacekeeping missions, or to seal
off the border with Albania to keep the fighting from spreading
there.

   Russia and France, among other countries, are insisting that the
United Nations would have to authorize any use of force against the
Serbs, and getting that authorization could take time or even be
impossible.

   But, addressing the issue of the need for a U.N. blessing, U.S.
Defense Secretary William Cohen said, ``The United States does not
feel it's imperative. It's desirable, not imperative.''

   The allies said they ordered a multinational air show with as
many planes, helicopters and troops from as many nations as they
could muster on short notice, but military authorities provided few
details about the upcoming aerial sabre-rattling, which might take
place 35 miles from the Serbian border, well out of Milosevic's
earshot or sight. Whether the planes would use live ammunition or
bombs would depend on whether they could drop them on military
firing ranges in Albania or Macedonia, officers said.

   If Serb gunners fired at them during the demonstration, one NATO
expert said, allied planes could take measures in self-defense
under rules that have applied in Bosnia-Herzegovina and most of the
rest of what was Yugoslavia since the war there.

   NATO foreign ministers just two weeks ago had requested military
plans for ``preventive deployments'' of troops, not in Kosovo but
across the border in Albania and Macedonia.

   But German Defense Minister Volker Ruehe said Thursday that this
had been a waste of time and had not kept the Serbs from sealing
off the border between Kosovo and Albania and using tanks,
artillery and mortars to drive out the ethnic Albanian population
in the border area.

   ``We cannot afford any longer to focus on hollow solutions of
rather symbolic character like border securing missions in Albania
or Macedonia, thus sealing off Kosovo from the outside,'' Ruehe
said. ``What we now have to focus on in order to support the
ongoing political process is to elaborate credible military options
aiming at the core of the problem: the extensive use of violence by
Serbian security or military forces against the Albanian civil
population in Kosovo.''

   Milosevic and his generals got a sample of what NATO warplanes
could do during the war in Bosnia in 1995, when an American-led
campaign against Bosnian Serb targets, coupled with a successful
Croatian offensive on the ground, forced the Serbs to the peace
table.

   Asked what would make the Serb leadership take this new
demonstration seriously, one senior NATO military official said,
``Milosevic will see the air demonstration not as a show but as
planning for a real operation.''

   The decision to speed up NATO's planning for real operations,
according to officials here, complements economic sanctions imposed
by the United States and Europe earlier this week and diplomatic
efforts on several fronts.

   Foreign ministers from leading NATO countries, Russia and Japan
plan to meet in London on Friday to press for renewed political
negotiations between Milosevic and the Albanian leadership in
Kosovo under Ibrahim Rugova. The aim of the talks would be to stop
the fighting and to restore or strengthen the autonomy the province
had before Milosevic revoked it 1989.

   Russian President Boris Yeltsin also invited Milosevic to Moscow
next week for talks the allies hope will impress on the Serb leader
the seriousness of the international threats and force him to back
down before they have to make good on their threat to use force.

   nn

   The NATO ministers on Thursday condemned violence by both the
authorities in Belgrade and what they called ``Kosovar Albanian
extremists,'' though diplomats say all western countries and Russia
agree that the main responsibility for the fighting lies with
Belgrade.

   ``We directed the NATO military authorities, subject to the
agreement of the governments of Albania and the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, to conduct an appropriate air exercise in
these two countries as quickly as possible, with the aim of
demonstrating NATO's capability to project power rapidly into the
region,'' the ministers said in a communique.

   They also called for ``a full range of options'' to stop the
fighting and stabilize the situation on the ground in Kosovo and
prevent the violence from drawing in Albania, Macedonia, and
possibly even Greece and Turkey if things get out of hand.

   ``The military planning is already under way,'' a NATO official
said even before Thursday's decisions. But, he added, ``No country
has yet committed itself to go through with these options.''

   Britain has been trying to get approval for a U.N. Security
Council resolution that would authorize NATO to use force if
necessary to restore peace to Kosovo. The United States and France
have expressed support for the measure.

   Russia, which could veto the resolution and bar NATO bombing or
ground operations in the region unless the United States and other
countries were willing to go ahead anyway, says it is trying to use
its influence to get Milosevic to call off attacks in Kosovo, which
is home to about two million ethnic Albanians.

   France, in particular, has attached great significance to
keeping Russia involved in the peacemaking effort, though the
French, along with the Germans, also pressed for Thursday's
decision to go ahead with detailed military planning for the
worst-case scenario should diplomacy fail, as it did so often in
Bosnia.

   Whether France would support NATO military action in Kosovo if
Russia used its veto authority was a question nobody could answer
here Thursday.

   The NATO-led peacekeeping mission in Bosnia has about 35,000
troops, with about 150 warplanes from 10 nations in the area at its
disposition that could be used in the exercise.

   Any NATO air operations in Kosovo or elsewhere in Serbia,
officials traveling with Cohen said, would be commanded by American
officers and would involve American planes that have been operating
out of Italy. U.S. planes from the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean
would also be involved if the carrier U.S.S. Eisenhower, which left
Norfolk, Va., earlier this week, gets there in time for the
exercise.

   On German radio Thursday, Gen. Klaus-Dieter Naumann of Germany,
chairman of NATO's military committee, provided an idea of what
NATO might undertake if military intervention becomes necessary.

   ``If we were assigned the task of enforcing an end to the
fighting _ this naturally applies to both sides, the Serbs and ...
the Kosovo Liberation Army as it has recently been called _ we
could ensure that with air strikes, as we did in Bosnia,'' the
general said.

   Diplomats from the United States, Russia, Britain, France,
Germany and Italy agreed Wednesday in Paris that Serb forces, not
the rebels in Kosovo, were primarily responsible for the violence,
which has killed an estimated 250 to 300 people.

   Some Western officials said they expected foreign ministers
meeting Friday in London to establish a deadline for a withdrawal
of Serbian military and special police forces from Kosovo, for a
cease-fire there, and for a resumption of talks with Rugova.

   Last month, Milosevic began talks with Rugova after U.S. special
envoy Richard Holbrooke agreed to recommend that the United States
and its European allies delay imposition of economic sanctions
while negotiations were under way.

   After the talks were suspended following the start of Serb
military operations in Kosovo, the allies last Monday froze Serb
assets and banned all investment in Yugoslavia. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0276 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:32 ',
			header: '
A5344 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CARS-COLLECTING-450&AMP;A     06-11 1007
',
			slug: ' BC-CARS-COLLECTING-450&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
AUTO COLLECTING: 50 YEARS OF THE 2CV'S JOIE DE VIVRE 
',
			trailer: '
   The Citroen 2CV, affectionately known the world over as the Deux
Chevaux _ for two horsepower _ turns 50 this month. Although the
eccentric little car has not been built since 1990, French devotees
recently marked its birthday with a parade on the Champs Elysees,
and a smaller celebration is planned next week in Massachusetts.

   Like the Model T Ford and the original Volkswagen, two other
cars designed as basic transportation for common people, the 2CV
has transcended its humble origins to become a 20th-century icon.

   When the car was unveiled in 1948 at the Paris Auto Show, it was
greeted with astonishment and derision. An American in attendance
is said to have asked, ``Does it come with a can opener?''

   It does indeed look like a tin can on springs, and it has often
been called ``the duck.'' But the odd design was intentional.
Citroen's general manager at the time, Pierre Boulanger, asked his
staff to come up with ``four wheels under an umbrella.'' And
Boulanger tested the prototypes by getting into each while wearing
a hat; if it was knocked off, the design was rejected.

   Like the VW Beetle, the Deux Chevaux was designed in the 1930s.
Prototypes were built in 1939, but the car's introduction was
delayed until after World War II. By 1953, a plant in
Levallois-Perret, France, was turning out 1,500 a week, and the 2CV
was ultimately assembled in several other countries. A total of
about 5.5 million were built.

   Of that number, the Citroen Club of North America estimates
there are only 2,000 2CVs in the United States, but not for lack of
interest. ``People go to Europe, fall in love with it and want to
have one here,'' said Michael Cox, editor of the Citroen Quarterly,
who is organizing the 22nd annual Citroen Rendezvous in Northfield,
Mass. The June 19-21 event will focus this year on the 2CV, and Cox
says he expects more than 100 of the cars to be on hand.

   The 2CV was imported from 1955 through the late '60s, but in
contrast to the very popular Volkswagen, only a few dozen were sold
annually, said Erik de Widt, president of the Citroen Club of North
America. Now, however, the 2CV is highly desirable on both sides of
the Atlantic.

   In the United States, it is prized in seaside vacation spots
like Nantucket, Mass., and there are pockets of loyalty in Southern
California and the Pacific Northwest.

   David Allen, who runs a 2CV importing business in Mustoe, Va.,
sold 2CVs to Chrysler and Ford for research into economical
third-world vehicles. Indeed, Chrysler used the 2CV as a model for
its Composite Concept Vehicle, or CCV, a plastic-body car
envisioned as low-cost transportation for China and other emerging
markets.

   The 2CV was nothing if not utilitarian. With its front-wheel
drivetrain, it was spacious for its size. The suspension was
extraordinarily supple, providing a well-cushioned ride. (Engineers
were ordered, legend has it, to put a basket of eggs on the back
seat; none of the eggs could be broken after the car crossed a
plowed field.) The roll-back canvas roof provided primitive air
conditioning; the seats could be unlatched and removed to serve as
picnic chairs.

   The car unveiled in 1948 _ the first sales came a year later _
had a two-cylinder, 375-cubic-centimeter engine. (Compare that
0.375-liter power plant with the 2-liter engine of the 1998 VW New
Beetle.)

   The Deux Chevaux appellation referred to the engine's output of
just two units of chevaux vapeur (2CV), or steam horsepower _
roughly equivalent to nine regular horsepower _ and powered the car
to a top speed of 34 miles an hour. It could travel up to 60 miles
on a gallon of gasoline.

   Like the VW Beetle, the 2CV managed to be endearing despite its
modest performance and homely appearance. Early models came only in
gray, but blue, green and yellow paint was added by 1961, when the
engine produced 13.5 horsepower and the car could attain 53 mph.
Over the years, the size of the engine increased and a number of
variations were produced, including a small panel truck for
deliveries and a fancier, two-tone model called the Charleston.

   In 1962, when Citroen was producing some 1,000 2CVs a day, the
car got a new dashboard, a speedometer and odometer, a fuel gauge
and electric windshield wipers. (While a student in France in 1968,
the author bought a 1955 model with hand-operated wipers and a
dipstick in the gas tank.)

   An 18-horsepower version capable of 60 mph came out in 1963, and
in 1968 the company introduced a restyled model, the Dyane, a sort
of new Deux Chevaux. Intended to replace the 2CV, the Dyane
faltered when interest in the original 2CV was rekindled by the
Green movement in Europe. The Dyane was discontinued in 1988, ahead
of the 2CV.

   In the United States, a low-mileage model in good condition now
costs $8,000 to $10,000, according to de Widt of the Citroen Club,
who said a 2CV in top condition could sell for $18,000. The simple,
austere cars produced before 1970 are considered closer in spirit
to the original.

   Would-be buyers should carefully examine a car's frame, since
rust is among the car's chief perils. Frames are now routinely
galvanized in the course of restoration.

   Even for collectors, the car's simplicity is a virtue. ``If you
have a 13-millimeter wrench and a screwdriver, you can take the
entire engine apart and put it back together again,'' de Widt said,
noting that parts are available from specialized suppliers like
French Parts Service in Bremerton, Wash.

   Further information is available from the Citroen Club of North
America at (301) 587-8635; from Michael Cox, editor of Citroen
Quarterly, at (617) 742-6604, and from French Parts Service at
(360) 373-8520.
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: Mass., Calif., Wash., Ore., Va.)   (Eds: Also moved in ``f'' category.)  
(lb) 
 By PETER C.T. ELSWORTH   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   The Citroen 2CV, affectionately known the world over as the Deux
Chevaux _ for two horsepower _ turns 50 this month. Although the
eccentric little car has not been built since 1990, French devotees
recently marked its birthday with a parade on the Champs Elysees,
and a smaller celebration is planned next week in Massachusetts.

   Like the Model T Ford and the original Volkswagen, two other
cars designed as basic transportation for common people, the 2CV
has transcended its humble origins to become a 20th-century icon.

   When the car was unveiled in 1948 at the Paris Auto Show, it was
greeted with astonishment and derision. An American in attendance
is said to have asked, ``Does it come with a can opener?''

   It does indeed look like a tin can on springs, and it has often
been called ``the duck.'' But the odd design was intentional.
Citroen's general manager at the time, Pierre Boulanger, asked his
staff to come up with ``four wheels under an umbrella.'' And
Boulanger tested the prototypes by getting into each while wearing
a hat; if it was knocked off, the design was rejected.

   Like the VW Beetle, the Deux Chevaux was designed in the 1930s.
Prototypes were built in 1939, but the car's introduction was
delayed until after World War II. By 1953, a plant in
Levallois-Perret, France, was turning out 1,500 a week, and the 2CV
was ultimately assembled in several other countries. A total of
about 5.5 million were built.

   Of that number, the Citroen Club of North America estimates
there are only 2,000 2CVs in the United States, but not for lack of
interest. ``People go to Europe, fall in love with it and want to
have one here,'' said Michael Cox, editor of the Citroen Quarterly,
who is organizing the 22nd annual Citroen Rendezvous in Northfield,
Mass. The June 19-21 event will focus this year on the 2CV, and Cox
says he expects more than 100 of the cars to be on hand.

   The 2CV was imported from 1955 through the late '60s, but in
contrast to the very popular Volkswagen, only a few dozen were sold
annually, said Erik de Widt, president of the Citroen Club of North
America. Now, however, the 2CV is highly desirable on both sides of
the Atlantic.

   In the United States, it is prized in seaside vacation spots
like Nantucket, Mass., and there are pockets of loyalty in Southern
California and the Pacific Northwest.

   David Allen, who runs a 2CV importing business in Mustoe, Va.,
sold 2CVs to Chrysler and Ford for research into economical
third-world vehicles. Indeed, Chrysler used the 2CV as a model for
its Composite Concept Vehicle, or CCV, a plastic-body car
envisioned as low-cost transportation for China and other emerging
markets.

   The 2CV was nothing if not utilitarian. With its front-wheel
drivetrain, it was spacious for its size. The suspension was
extraordinarily supple, providing a well-cushioned ride. (Engineers
were ordered, legend has it, to put a basket of eggs on the back
seat; none of the eggs could be broken after the car crossed a
plowed field.) The roll-back canvas roof provided primitive air
conditioning; the seats could be unlatched and removed to serve as
picnic chairs.

   The car unveiled in 1948 _ the first sales came a year later _
had a two-cylinder, 375-cubic-centimeter engine. (Compare that
0.375-liter power plant with the 2-liter engine of the 1998 VW New
Beetle.)

   The Deux Chevaux appellation referred to the engine's output of
just two units of chevaux vapeur (2CV), or steam horsepower _
roughly equivalent to nine regular horsepower _ and powered the car
to a top speed of 34 miles an hour. It could travel up to 60 miles
on a gallon of gasoline.

   Like the VW Beetle, the 2CV managed to be endearing despite its
modest performance and homely appearance. Early models came only in
gray, but blue, green and yellow paint was added by 1961, when the
engine produced 13.5 horsepower and the car could attain 53 mph.
Over the years, the size of the engine increased and a number of
variations were produced, including a small panel truck for
deliveries and a fancier, two-tone model called the Charleston.

   In 1962, when Citroen was producing some 1,000 2CVs a day, the
car got a new dashboard, a speedometer and odometer, a fuel gauge
and electric windshield wipers. (While a student in France in 1968,
the author bought a 1955 model with hand-operated wipers and a
dipstick in the gas tank.)

   An 18-horsepower version capable of 60 mph came out in 1963, and
in 1968 the company introduced a restyled model, the Dyane, a sort
of new Deux Chevaux. Intended to replace the 2CV, the Dyane
faltered when interest in the original 2CV was rekindled by the
Green movement in Europe. The Dyane was discontinued in 1988, ahead
of the 2CV.

   In the United States, a low-mileage model in good condition now
costs $8,000 to $10,000, according to de Widt of the Citroen Club,
who said a 2CV in top condition could sell for $18,000. The simple,
austere cars produced before 1970 are considered closer in spirit
to the original.

   Would-be buyers should carefully examine a car's frame, since
rust is among the car's chief perils. Frames are now routinely
galvanized in the course of restoration.

   Even for collectors, the car's simplicity is a virtue. ``If you
have a 13-millimeter wrench and a screwdriver, you can take the
entire engine apart and put it back together again,'' de Widt said,
noting that parts are available from specialized suppliers like
French Parts Service in Bremerton, Wash.

   Further information is available from the Citroen Club of North
America at (301) 587-8635; from Michael Cox, editor of Citroen
Quarterly, at (617) 742-6604, and from French Parts Service at
(360) 373-8520.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0277 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:37 ',
			header: '
A5348 &Cx1f; tib-z
u k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BAKER-COLUMN-NYT &LR;      06-11 0744
',
			slug: ' BC-BAKER-COLUMN-NYT ',
			headline: '
COMMENTARY: UP THERE IN HIGH DUDGEON  
 (JT) 
',
			trailer: '
   The trial lawyers who whipped Big Bad Tobacco are now trying to
collect fees that run into billions of dollars. This has produced
the usual outcries from people who hate to see anybody wallow in
money, especially when the anybody is a lawyer.

   Lawyers, like journalists, are alluring targets. It's shabby of
me, but I take an occasional whack at lawyers myself. What is it
about lawyers that sours the sweetest human natures?

   Well, for one thing, lawyers complicate what is simple and
complexify what is merely complicated. And, of course, they take
their sweet old time doing it. The mills of the gods may grind
slowly, but the mills of the law grind scarcely at all.

   It is easy for a person to spend 80 or 90 percent of his life in
the coils of the law if he is foolish enough to phone a lawyer or
luckless enough to receive a hostile lawyer's subpoena.

   Still, there is a lot to be said for lawyers. There is, for
example, the lawyerly rebuttal to the medical doctor arguing that
medicine was the greater profession: ``While your profession was
trying to cure disease with leeches, mine was writing the
Constitution of the United States.''

   Sometimes they seem to have framed the Constitution so that
lawyers would run things perpetually. They created a judiciary and
instantly put one-third of the government in lawyers' hands.

   The second third, a k a the Congress, always contains such
hordes of lawyers that the U.S. government can be called, without
too much exaggeration, a conspiracy of lawyers.

   Why are reformers so hellbent on term limitations for Congress?
Lawyer limitations _ limiting the number of lawyers in Congress _
would produce a far more representative body.

   But back to billion-dollar fees for the tobacco-case lawyers:
Part of the outrage is accountable to the way we think of the word
``billion.''

   The billion is the unit in which we measure such cosmic
magnitudes as the number of galaxies in the universe, the wealth of
Bill Gates, Harvard's endowment and congressional pork bills.

   In these tobacco cases, however, the lawyers have a reasonable
argument. Trial lawyers traditionally work for one-third of the
take in civil suits.

   This can be a dandy sum of money, especially in one of those
mass-market cases where the lawyer sues on behalf of all humanity,
which was basically what was happening in the tobacco affair. On
the other hand, if his client loses, the lawyer gets nothing but
the bills he runs up to develop the case.

   In view of tobacco's long record of eluding efforts to nail it
in the courts, trial lawyers in the tobacco cases were betting
against the odds. This time they won the lottery. They want
billions. Right-thinking people are outraged.

   The fact about a big payday is that nobody deserves one, at
least if he is raking in more money than I, the hard-working and
underpaid salt of the earth without the likes of whom this great
country would not exist, am making.

   The problem here is that salt of the earth is not one of the
high-end jobs in the present labor market. There are billions
galore to sweeten Friday nights in this gigantic booming economy,
but most of us had bad guidance counseling in high school, so got
trapped in low-end work.

   The big _ really big! _ paydays are pretty much confined to two
lines of work. One is drawing a crowd. The bigger the crowd you
draw, the bigger the pay.

   This is why entertainers _ rock stars, Seinfelds, Spielbergs,
Madonnas, Michael Jordans, Albert Belles, John Grishams, Greg
Normans _ are paid the wealth of the Indies. In a world that lives
to be entertained, they all lure hordes into the tent.

   The other lucrative line of work consists of moving vast clumps
of money from one pocket to the other. The legal rules in this line
of work allow people who move the money to skim percentages of the
money being moved.

   With billions in constant movement, it's a great trade to be in.
This explains why investment bankers, toilers in the stock markets
and captains and pirates of global industry _ those buyers, sellers
and mergers of multibillion-dollar blocks of money _ have private
jets and 35-room weekend estates.

   Thinking about it makes me purple with rage, green with envy,
blue about my own personal red ink, and sullen enough to kick a
lawyer.

   &QL;
',
			body: '


   By RUSSELL BAKER    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   The trial lawyers who whipped Big Bad Tobacco are now trying to
collect fees that run into billions of dollars. This has produced
the usual outcries from people who hate to see anybody wallow in
money, especially when the anybody is a lawyer.

   Lawyers, like journalists, are alluring targets. It's shabby of
me, but I take an occasional whack at lawyers myself. What is it
about lawyers that sours the sweetest human natures?

   Well, for one thing, lawyers complicate what is simple and
complexify what is merely complicated. And, of course, they take
their sweet old time doing it. The mills of the gods may grind
slowly, but the mills of the law grind scarcely at all.

   It is easy for a person to spend 80 or 90 percent of his life in
the coils of the law if he is foolish enough to phone a lawyer or
luckless enough to receive a hostile lawyer's subpoena.

   Still, there is a lot to be said for lawyers. There is, for
example, the lawyerly rebuttal to the medical doctor arguing that
medicine was the greater profession: ``While your profession was
trying to cure disease with leeches, mine was writing the
Constitution of the United States.''

   Sometimes they seem to have framed the Constitution so that
lawyers would run things perpetually. They created a judiciary and
instantly put one-third of the government in lawyers' hands.

   The second third, a k a the Congress, always contains such
hordes of lawyers that the U.S. government can be called, without
too much exaggeration, a conspiracy of lawyers.

   Why are reformers so hellbent on term limitations for Congress?
Lawyer limitations _ limiting the number of lawyers in Congress _
would produce a far more representative body.

   But back to billion-dollar fees for the tobacco-case lawyers:
Part of the outrage is accountable to the way we think of the word
``billion.''

   The billion is the unit in which we measure such cosmic
magnitudes as the number of galaxies in the universe, the wealth of
Bill Gates, Harvard's endowment and congressional pork bills.

   In these tobacco cases, however, the lawyers have a reasonable
argument. Trial lawyers traditionally work for one-third of the
take in civil suits.

   This can be a dandy sum of money, especially in one of those
mass-market cases where the lawyer sues on behalf of all humanity,
which was basically what was happening in the tobacco affair. On
the other hand, if his client loses, the lawyer gets nothing but
the bills he runs up to develop the case.

   In view of tobacco's long record of eluding efforts to nail it
in the courts, trial lawyers in the tobacco cases were betting
against the odds. This time they won the lottery. They want
billions. Right-thinking people are outraged.

   The fact about a big payday is that nobody deserves one, at
least if he is raking in more money than I, the hard-working and
underpaid salt of the earth without the likes of whom this great
country would not exist, am making.

   The problem here is that salt of the earth is not one of the
high-end jobs in the present labor market. There are billions
galore to sweeten Friday nights in this gigantic booming economy,
but most of us had bad guidance counseling in high school, so got
trapped in low-end work.

   The big _ really big! _ paydays are pretty much confined to two
lines of work. One is drawing a crowd. The bigger the crowd you
draw, the bigger the pay.

   This is why entertainers _ rock stars, Seinfelds, Spielbergs,
Madonnas, Michael Jordans, Albert Belles, John Grishams, Greg
Normans _ are paid the wealth of the Indies. In a world that lives
to be entertained, they all lure hordes into the tent.

   The other lucrative line of work consists of moving vast clumps
of money from one pocket to the other. The legal rules in this line
of work allow people who move the money to skim percentages of the
money being moved.

   With billions in constant movement, it's a great trade to be in.
This explains why investment bankers, toilers in the stock markets
and captains and pirates of global industry _ those buyers, sellers
and mergers of multibillion-dollar blocks of money _ have private
jets and 35-room weekend estates.

   Thinking about it makes me purple with rage, green with envy,
blue about my own personal red ink, and sullen enough to kick a
lawyer.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0278 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:38 ',
			header: '
A5351 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CARS-COLLECTING-450&AMP;A     06-11 1007
',
			slug: ' BC-CARS-COLLECTING-450&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
AUTO COLLECTING: 50 YEARS OF THE 2CV'S JOIE DE VIVRE 
',
			trailer: '
   The Citroen 2CV, affectionately known the world over as the Deux
Chevaux _ for two horsepower _ turns 50 this month. Although the
eccentric little car has not been built since 1990, French devotees
recently marked its birthday with a parade on the Champs Elysees,
and a smaller celebration is planned next week in Massachusetts.

   Like the Model T Ford and the original Volkswagen, two other
cars designed as basic transportation for common people, the 2CV
has transcended its humble origins to become a 20th-century icon.

   When the car was unveiled in 1948 at the Paris Auto Show, it was
greeted with astonishment and derision. An American in attendance
is said to have asked, ``Does it come with a can opener?''

   It does indeed look like a tin can on springs, and it has often
been called ``the duck.'' But the odd design was intentional.
Citroen's general manager at the time, Pierre Boulanger, asked his
staff to come up with ``four wheels under an umbrella.'' And
Boulanger tested the prototypes by getting into each while wearing
a hat; if it was knocked off, the design was rejected.

   Like the VW Beetle, the Deux Chevaux was designed in the 1930s.
Prototypes were built in 1939, but the car's introduction was
delayed until after World War II. By 1953, a plant in
Levallois-Perret, France, was turning out 1,500 a week, and the 2CV
was ultimately assembled in several other countries. A total of
about 5.5 million were built.

   Of that number, the Citroen Club of North America estimates
there are only 2,000 2CVs in the United States, but not for lack of
interest. ``People go to Europe, fall in love with it and want to
have one here,'' said Michael Cox, editor of the Citroen Quarterly,
who is organizing the 22nd annual Citroen Rendezvous in Northfield,
Mass. The June 19-21 event will focus this year on the 2CV, and Cox
says he expects more than 100 of the cars to be on hand.

   The 2CV was imported from 1955 through the late '60s, but in
contrast to the very popular Volkswagen, only a few dozen were sold
annually, said Erik de Widt, president of the Citroen Club of North
America. Now, however, the 2CV is highly desirable on both sides of
the Atlantic.

   In the United States, it is prized in seaside vacation spots
like Nantucket, Mass., and there are pockets of loyalty in Southern
California and the Pacific Northwest.

   David Allen, who runs a 2CV importing business in Mustoe, Va.,
sold 2CVs to Chrysler and Ford for research into economical
third-world vehicles. Indeed, Chrysler used the 2CV as a model for
its Composite Concept Vehicle, or CCV, a plastic-body car
envisioned as low-cost transportation for China and other emerging
markets.

   The 2CV was nothing if not utilitarian. With its front-wheel
drivetrain, it was spacious for its size. The suspension was
extraordinarily supple, providing a well-cushioned ride. (Engineers
were ordered, legend has it, to put a basket of eggs on the back
seat; none of the eggs could be broken after the car crossed a
plowed field.) The roll-back canvas roof provided primitive air
conditioning; the seats could be unlatched and removed to serve as
picnic chairs.

   The car unveiled in 1948 _ the first sales came a year later _
had a two-cylinder, 375-cubic-centimeter engine. (Compare that
0.375-liter power plant with the 2-liter engine of the 1998 VW New
Beetle.)

   The Deux Chevaux appellation referred to the engine's output of
just two units of chevaux vapeur (2CV), or steam horsepower _
roughly equivalent to nine regular horsepower _ and powered the car
to a top speed of 34 miles an hour. It could travel up to 60 miles
on a gallon of gasoline.

   Like the VW Beetle, the 2CV managed to be endearing despite its
modest performance and homely appearance. Early models came only in
gray, but blue, green and yellow paint was added by 1961, when the
engine produced 13.5 horsepower and the car could attain 53 mph.
Over the years, the size of the engine increased and a number of
variations were produced, including a small panel truck for
deliveries and a fancier, two-tone model called the Charleston.

   In 1962, when Citroen was producing some 1,000 2CVs a day, the
car got a new dashboard, a speedometer and odometer, a fuel gauge
and electric windshield wipers. (While a student in France in 1968,
the author bought a 1955 model with hand-operated wipers and a
dipstick in the gas tank.)

   An 18-horsepower version capable of 60 mph came out in 1963, and
in 1968 the company introduced a restyled model, the Dyane, a sort
of new Deux Chevaux. Intended to replace the 2CV, the Dyane
faltered when interest in the original 2CV was rekindled by the
Green movement in Europe. The Dyane was discontinued in 1988, ahead
of the 2CV.

   In the United States, a low-mileage model in good condition now
costs $8,000 to $10,000, according to de Widt of the Citroen Club,
who said a 2CV in top condition could sell for $18,000. The simple,
austere cars produced before 1970 are considered closer in spirit
to the original.

   Would-be buyers should carefully examine a car's frame, since
rust is among the car's chief perils. Frames are now routinely
galvanized in the course of restoration.

   Even for collectors, the car's simplicity is a virtue. ``If you
have a 13-millimeter wrench and a screwdriver, you can take the
entire engine apart and put it back together again,'' de Widt said,
noting that parts are available from specialized suppliers like
French Parts Service in Bremerton, Wash.

   Further information is available from the Citroen Club of North
America at (301) 587-8635; from Michael Cox, editor of Citroen
Quarterly, at (617) 742-6604, and from French Parts Service at
(360) 373-8520.
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: Mass., Calif., Wash., Ore., Va.)   (Eds: Also moved in ``a'' category.)  
(lb) 
 By PETER C.T. ELSWORTH   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   The Citroen 2CV, affectionately known the world over as the Deux
Chevaux _ for two horsepower _ turns 50 this month. Although the
eccentric little car has not been built since 1990, French devotees
recently marked its birthday with a parade on the Champs Elysees,
and a smaller celebration is planned next week in Massachusetts.

   Like the Model T Ford and the original Volkswagen, two other
cars designed as basic transportation for common people, the 2CV
has transcended its humble origins to become a 20th-century icon.

   When the car was unveiled in 1948 at the Paris Auto Show, it was
greeted with astonishment and derision. An American in attendance
is said to have asked, ``Does it come with a can opener?''

   It does indeed look like a tin can on springs, and it has often
been called ``the duck.'' But the odd design was intentional.
Citroen's general manager at the time, Pierre Boulanger, asked his
staff to come up with ``four wheels under an umbrella.'' And
Boulanger tested the prototypes by getting into each while wearing
a hat; if it was knocked off, the design was rejected.

   Like the VW Beetle, the Deux Chevaux was designed in the 1930s.
Prototypes were built in 1939, but the car's introduction was
delayed until after World War II. By 1953, a plant in
Levallois-Perret, France, was turning out 1,500 a week, and the 2CV
was ultimately assembled in several other countries. A total of
about 5.5 million were built.

   Of that number, the Citroen Club of North America estimates
there are only 2,000 2CVs in the United States, but not for lack of
interest. ``People go to Europe, fall in love with it and want to
have one here,'' said Michael Cox, editor of the Citroen Quarterly,
who is organizing the 22nd annual Citroen Rendezvous in Northfield,
Mass. The June 19-21 event will focus this year on the 2CV, and Cox
says he expects more than 100 of the cars to be on hand.

   The 2CV was imported from 1955 through the late '60s, but in
contrast to the very popular Volkswagen, only a few dozen were sold
annually, said Erik de Widt, president of the Citroen Club of North
America. Now, however, the 2CV is highly desirable on both sides of
the Atlantic.

   In the United States, it is prized in seaside vacation spots
like Nantucket, Mass., and there are pockets of loyalty in Southern
California and the Pacific Northwest.

   David Allen, who runs a 2CV importing business in Mustoe, Va.,
sold 2CVs to Chrysler and Ford for research into economical
third-world vehicles. Indeed, Chrysler used the 2CV as a model for
its Composite Concept Vehicle, or CCV, a plastic-body car
envisioned as low-cost transportation for China and other emerging
markets.

   The 2CV was nothing if not utilitarian. With its front-wheel
drivetrain, it was spacious for its size. The suspension was
extraordinarily supple, providing a well-cushioned ride. (Engineers
were ordered, legend has it, to put a basket of eggs on the back
seat; none of the eggs could be broken after the car crossed a
plowed field.) The roll-back canvas roof provided primitive air
conditioning; the seats could be unlatched and removed to serve as
picnic chairs.

   The car unveiled in 1948 _ the first sales came a year later _
had a two-cylinder, 375-cubic-centimeter engine. (Compare that
0.375-liter power plant with the 2-liter engine of the 1998 VW New
Beetle.)

   The Deux Chevaux appellation referred to the engine's output of
just two units of chevaux vapeur (2CV), or steam horsepower _
roughly equivalent to nine regular horsepower _ and powered the car
to a top speed of 34 miles an hour. It could travel up to 60 miles
on a gallon of gasoline.

   Like the VW Beetle, the 2CV managed to be endearing despite its
modest performance and homely appearance. Early models came only in
gray, but blue, green and yellow paint was added by 1961, when the
engine produced 13.5 horsepower and the car could attain 53 mph.
Over the years, the size of the engine increased and a number of
variations were produced, including a small panel truck for
deliveries and a fancier, two-tone model called the Charleston.

   In 1962, when Citroen was producing some 1,000 2CVs a day, the
car got a new dashboard, a speedometer and odometer, a fuel gauge
and electric windshield wipers. (While a student in France in 1968,
the author bought a 1955 model with hand-operated wipers and a
dipstick in the gas tank.)

   An 18-horsepower version capable of 60 mph came out in 1963, and
in 1968 the company introduced a restyled model, the Dyane, a sort
of new Deux Chevaux. Intended to replace the 2CV, the Dyane
faltered when interest in the original 2CV was rekindled by the
Green movement in Europe. The Dyane was discontinued in 1988, ahead
of the 2CV.

   In the United States, a low-mileage model in good condition now
costs $8,000 to $10,000, according to de Widt of the Citroen Club,
who said a 2CV in top condition could sell for $18,000. The simple,
austere cars produced before 1970 are considered closer in spirit
to the original.

   Would-be buyers should carefully examine a car's frame, since
rust is among the car's chief perils. Frames are now routinely
galvanized in the course of restoration.

   Even for collectors, the car's simplicity is a virtue. ``If you
have a 13-millimeter wrench and a screwdriver, you can take the
entire engine apart and put it back together again,'' de Widt said,
noting that parts are available from specialized suppliers like
French Parts Service in Bremerton, Wash.

   Further information is available from the Citroen Club of North
America at (301) 587-8635; from Michael Cox, editor of Citroen
Quarterly, at (617) 742-6604, and from French Parts Service at
(360) 373-8520.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0279 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:42 ',
			header: '
A5357 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FINFRONTS-NYT &LR;      06-11 0437
',
			slug: ' BC-FINFRONTS-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &QL;

   &UR; FOR FRIDAY AMs  &LR;

   &UR; Business Day Front Page (coded ``f'' unless otherwise noted) &LR;  &QL;

   (Lede story)

   MARKET (New York) _ Stocks prices tumbled Thursday even as
government bond yields fell to their lowest level in more than 20
years. The disjunction of the two markets, which have normally
moved in the same direction in recent years, is a result of the
disquieting impact of the economic turmoil in Asia, where stock
markets and currencies fell once again Thursday. The deepening
problems in Russia are also playing a role. By Jonathan
Fuerbringer.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:30 p.m. ET.)

   (Top display)

   LICENSING-AD-COLUMN _ Say hello to Coca-Cola Picnic Barbie. Then
there is the Jeep bicycle, the Sara Lee Kahlua Mudslide cheesecake
and the Chevrolet running shoe. Soon to be presented to the
American consumer: the Harley-Davidson armchair. Corporations have
seized upon brand licensing to promote their products beyond the
usual showrooms or supermarket shelves. By Constance L. Hays.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:45 p.m. ET.)

   (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or 1927.)

   UNITED-TV-GUIDE _ News Corp. agreed Thursday to sell TV Guide to
United Video Satellite Group Inc. for $2 billion in cash and stock.
By Geraldine Fabrikant.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:30 p.m. ET.)

   (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE _ What's behind the declining value of
membership in traditional financial enclaves? Consolidation among
exchanges, languishing stock prices and falling commodity prices,
which if persistent could foreshadow a decline in future trading
volume, are among the factors pushing down seat prices _ sometimes
viewed as an indicator of market sentiment. But perhaps the biggest
concern is the rise of electronic trading. By David Barboza.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:15 p.m. ET.)

   (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   (Bottom)

   EMPLOYEE-STOCK _ Three years after accounting rulemakers shied
away from a plan that would have limited the issuance of stock
options, granted mostly to executives they have given preliminary
approval to a proposal that could make it harder for many companies
to sell discounted stock to the rank-and-file. By Melody Petersen.

   (We plan to move the story by 9 p.m. ET.)

   BIZGLANCE (Undated) _ Digest of the day's financial stories.
(Will move by 9:30 p.m. Eastern Time.) &QL;
',
			body: '

  
(th) 

',
			paragraphs: '
   &QL;

   &UR; FOR FRIDAY AMs  &LR;

   &UR; Business Day Front Page (coded ``f'' unless otherwise noted) &LR;  &QL;

   (Lede story)

   MARKET (New York) _ Stocks prices tumbled Thursday even as
government bond yields fell to their lowest level in more than 20
years. The disjunction of the two markets, which have normally
moved in the same direction in recent years, is a result of the
disquieting impact of the economic turmoil in Asia, where stock
markets and currencies fell once again Thursday. The deepening
problems in Russia are also playing a role. By Jonathan
Fuerbringer.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:30 p.m. ET.)

   (Top display)

   LICENSING-AD-COLUMN _ Say hello to Coca-Cola Picnic Barbie. Then
there is the Jeep bicycle, the Sara Lee Kahlua Mudslide cheesecake
and the Chevrolet running shoe. Soon to be presented to the
American consumer: the Harley-Davidson armchair. Corporations have
seized upon brand licensing to promote their products beyond the
usual showrooms or supermarket shelves. By Constance L. Hays.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:45 p.m. ET.)

   (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or 1927.)

   UNITED-TV-GUIDE _ News Corp. agreed Thursday to sell TV Guide to
United Video Satellite Group Inc. for $2 billion in cash and stock.
By Geraldine Fabrikant.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:30 p.m. ET.)

   (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE _ What's behind the declining value of
membership in traditional financial enclaves? Consolidation among
exchanges, languishing stock prices and falling commodity prices,
which if persistent could foreshadow a decline in future trading
volume, are among the factors pushing down seat prices _ sometimes
viewed as an indicator of market sentiment. But perhaps the biggest
concern is the rise of electronic trading. By David Barboza.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:15 p.m. ET.)

   (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   (Bottom)

   EMPLOYEE-STOCK _ Three years after accounting rulemakers shied
away from a plan that would have limited the issuance of stock
options, granted mostly to executives they have given preliminary
approval to a proposal that could make it harder for many companies
to sell discounted stock to the rank-and-file. By Melody Petersen.

   (We plan to move the story by 9 p.m. ET.)

   BIZGLANCE (Undated) _ Digest of the day's financial stories.
(Will move by 9:30 p.m. Eastern Time.) &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0280 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:43 ',
			header: '
A5358 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FINFRONTS-NYT &LR;      06-11 0437
',
			slug: ' BC-FINFRONTS-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &QL;

   &UR; FOR FRIDAY AMs  &LR;

   &UR; Business Day Front Page (coded ``f'' unless otherwise noted) &LR;  &QL;

   (Lede story)

   MARKET (New York) _ Stocks prices tumbled Thursday even as
government bond yields fell to their lowest level in more than 20
years. The disjunction of the two markets, which have normally
moved in the same direction in recent years, is a result of the
disquieting impact of the economic turmoil in Asia, where stock
markets and currencies fell once again Thursday. The deepening
problems in Russia are also playing a role. By Jonathan
Fuerbringer.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:30 p.m. ET.)

   (Top display)

   LICENSING-AD-COLUMN _ Say hello to Coca-Cola Picnic Barbie. Then
there is the Jeep bicycle, the Sara Lee Kahlua Mudslide cheesecake
and the Chevrolet running shoe. Soon to be presented to the
American consumer: the Harley-Davidson armchair. Corporations have
seized upon brand licensing to promote their products beyond the
usual showrooms or supermarket shelves. By Constance L. Hays.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:45 p.m. ET.)

   (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or 1927.)

   UNITED-TV-GUIDE _ News Corp. agreed Thursday to sell TV Guide to
United Video Satellite Group Inc. for $2 billion in cash and stock.
By Geraldine Fabrikant.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:30 p.m. ET.)

   (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE _ What's behind the declining value of
membership in traditional financial enclaves? Consolidation among
exchanges, languishing stock prices and falling commodity prices,
which if persistent could foreshadow a decline in future trading
volume, are among the factors pushing down seat prices _ sometimes
viewed as an indicator of market sentiment. But perhaps the biggest
concern is the rise of electronic trading. By David Barboza.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:15 p.m. ET.)

   (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   (Bottom)

   EMPLOYEE-STOCK _ Three years after accounting rulemakers shied
away from a plan that would have limited the issuance of stock
options, granted mostly to executives they have given preliminary
approval to a proposal that could make it harder for many companies
to sell discounted stock to the rank-and-file. By Melody Petersen.

   (We plan to move the story by 9 p.m. ET.)

   BIZGLANCE (Undated) _ Digest of the day's financial stories.
(Will move by 9:30 p.m. Eastern Time.) &QL;
',
			body: '

  
(th) 

',
			paragraphs: '
   &QL;

   &UR; FOR FRIDAY AMs  &LR;

   &UR; Business Day Front Page (coded ``f'' unless otherwise noted) &LR;  &QL;

   (Lede story)

   MARKET (New York) _ Stocks prices tumbled Thursday even as
government bond yields fell to their lowest level in more than 20
years. The disjunction of the two markets, which have normally
moved in the same direction in recent years, is a result of the
disquieting impact of the economic turmoil in Asia, where stock
markets and currencies fell once again Thursday. The deepening
problems in Russia are also playing a role. By Jonathan
Fuerbringer.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:30 p.m. ET.)

   (Top display)

   LICENSING-AD-COLUMN _ Say hello to Coca-Cola Picnic Barbie. Then
there is the Jeep bicycle, the Sara Lee Kahlua Mudslide cheesecake
and the Chevrolet running shoe. Soon to be presented to the
American consumer: the Harley-Davidson armchair. Corporations have
seized upon brand licensing to promote their products beyond the
usual showrooms or supermarket shelves. By Constance L. Hays.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:45 p.m. ET.)

   (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or 1927.)

   UNITED-TV-GUIDE _ News Corp. agreed Thursday to sell TV Guide to
United Video Satellite Group Inc. for $2 billion in cash and stock.
By Geraldine Fabrikant.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:30 p.m. ET.)

   (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE _ What's behind the declining value of
membership in traditional financial enclaves? Consolidation among
exchanges, languishing stock prices and falling commodity prices,
which if persistent could foreshadow a decline in future trading
volume, are among the factors pushing down seat prices _ sometimes
viewed as an indicator of market sentiment. But perhaps the biggest
concern is the rise of electronic trading. By David Barboza.

   (We plan to move the story by 8:15 p.m. ET.)

   (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   (Bottom)

   EMPLOYEE-STOCK _ Three years after accounting rulemakers shied
away from a plan that would have limited the issuance of stock
options, granted mostly to executives they have given preliminary
approval to a proposal that could make it harder for many companies
to sell discounted stock to the rank-and-file. By Melody Petersen.

   (We plan to move the story by 9 p.m. ET.)

   BIZGLANCE (Undated) _ Digest of the day's financial stories.
(Will move by 9:30 p.m. Eastern Time.) &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0281 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:44 ',
			header: '
A5359 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FRONTPAGE-NYT &LR;      06-11 0613
',
			slug: ' BC-FRONTPAGE-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   (pr) &QL;

   Here are the stories New York Times editors are planning for
Page 1, Friday, June 12. The N.Y. Times News Service Night
Supervisor is Pat Ryan (212-556-1927).

   TOP

   Lead stories:

   KOSOVO-NATO (Brussels, Belgium) _ NATO defense ministers
commission contingency plans for bombing Serbian targets in Kosovo
and say they will stage a huge military exercise at Serbia's
doorstep as early as next week to give the Yugoslav president,
Slobodan Milosevic, a taste of the power that could be turned on
him if he persists in attacks on the province. By Craig R. Whitney.
(The story has moved in ``i'' news file.) 1,500 words.

   With: KOSOVO-RUSSIA

   KOSOVO-LANDMINES (Kukes, Albania) _ A chilling new element has
become part of the Serbian campaign against ethnic Albanians: Land
mines. By Chris Hedges. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in ``i''
news file.) The story runs under a 2-column map-graphic.

   Top center story:

   GM-STRIKE (Detroit) _ Nearly 6,000 workers go on strike at a GM
spark plug and speedometer factory in Flint, joining fellow
strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter fight that
could close all of the leading automaker's North American assembly
plants within days. By Keith Bradsher. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m.
ET in ``f'' news file.)

   Off-lead: 2-col. photo reefer to CHINA-CLINTON; story inside.

   FOLD

   ASIA-GLOOM (Hong Kong) _ That the Asian financial crisis is
mutating into the Asian recession is not a surprise, but the depth
of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and the gloom that
suffuses the region have surprised even the pessimists. By Mark
Landler. (The story has moved in ``f'' news file.) With graphic.
2,000 words.

   REED-POLITICS (Atlanta) _ With the Republican primary season in
full bloom, Ralph Reed and his new consulting firm sit atop the
fault line between the pragmatists and the purists within America's
religious right. By Kevin Sack. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in
``a'' news file.) With photo. 1,800 words.

   BOTTOM

   MAGAZINE-FABRICATION (New York) _ Examining the breadth and
depth of the journalistic fabrications by Stephen Glass, the New
Republic writer whose case has prompted a flurry of soul-searching
in the news media. By Robin Pogrebin. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m.
ET in ``a'' news file.)

   NAVY-GAYRIGHTS (Washington) _ Revisiting the case of Timothy R.
McVeigh, the highly decorated sailor who was investigated by the
Navy after he posted a message in which he described himself as
``gay.'' By Philip Shenon. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in ``w''
news file.)

   INSIDE STORIES PROMOTED ON PAGE 1:

   CLINTON-JONES (Undated) _ In rejecting a possible settlement of
her sexual misconduct lawsuit against President Clinton, Paula
Jones was warned by her lawyers last August that she was risking
``devastation'' in pursuing a claim that could sully her
reputation. By Francis X. Clines. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET
in ``a'' news file.)

   CHICAGO-GUN-SUIT (Chicago) _ Mayor Daley of Chicago is preparing
a suit against gun manufacturers, saying they should be held liable
for violence, like tobacco companies for sickness. (Scheduled to
move by 9 p.m. ET in ``a'' news file.)

   TOBACCO-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The Senate is expected to vote
on a proposal to limit lawyers' fees in tobacco suits to $1,000 an
hour. By David E. Rosenbaum. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in
``w'' news file.) With photo.

   CAMPAIGN-FINANCE (Washington) _ Campaign finance developments.
By Alison Mitchell. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in ``w'' news
file.)
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   (pr) &QL;

   Here are the stories New York Times editors are planning for
Page 1, Friday, June 12. The N.Y. Times News Service Night
Supervisor is Pat Ryan (212-556-1927).

   TOP

   Lead stories:

   KOSOVO-NATO (Brussels, Belgium) _ NATO defense ministers
commission contingency plans for bombing Serbian targets in Kosovo
and say they will stage a huge military exercise at Serbia's
doorstep as early as next week to give the Yugoslav president,
Slobodan Milosevic, a taste of the power that could be turned on
him if he persists in attacks on the province. By Craig R. Whitney.
(The story has moved in ``i'' news file.) 1,500 words.

   With: KOSOVO-RUSSIA

   KOSOVO-LANDMINES (Kukes, Albania) _ A chilling new element has
become part of the Serbian campaign against ethnic Albanians: Land
mines. By Chris Hedges. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in ``i''
news file.) The story runs under a 2-column map-graphic.

   Top center story:

   GM-STRIKE (Detroit) _ Nearly 6,000 workers go on strike at a GM
spark plug and speedometer factory in Flint, joining fellow
strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter fight that
could close all of the leading automaker's North American assembly
plants within days. By Keith Bradsher. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m.
ET in ``f'' news file.)

   Off-lead: 2-col. photo reefer to CHINA-CLINTON; story inside.

   FOLD

   ASIA-GLOOM (Hong Kong) _ That the Asian financial crisis is
mutating into the Asian recession is not a surprise, but the depth
of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and the gloom that
suffuses the region have surprised even the pessimists. By Mark
Landler. (The story has moved in ``f'' news file.) With graphic.
2,000 words.

   REED-POLITICS (Atlanta) _ With the Republican primary season in
full bloom, Ralph Reed and his new consulting firm sit atop the
fault line between the pragmatists and the purists within America's
religious right. By Kevin Sack. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in
``a'' news file.) With photo. 1,800 words.

   BOTTOM

   MAGAZINE-FABRICATION (New York) _ Examining the breadth and
depth of the journalistic fabrications by Stephen Glass, the New
Republic writer whose case has prompted a flurry of soul-searching
in the news media. By Robin Pogrebin. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m.
ET in ``a'' news file.)

   NAVY-GAYRIGHTS (Washington) _ Revisiting the case of Timothy R.
McVeigh, the highly decorated sailor who was investigated by the
Navy after he posted a message in which he described himself as
``gay.'' By Philip Shenon. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in ``w''
news file.)

   INSIDE STORIES PROMOTED ON PAGE 1:

   CLINTON-JONES (Undated) _ In rejecting a possible settlement of
her sexual misconduct lawsuit against President Clinton, Paula
Jones was warned by her lawyers last August that she was risking
``devastation'' in pursuing a claim that could sully her
reputation. By Francis X. Clines. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET
in ``a'' news file.)

   CHICAGO-GUN-SUIT (Chicago) _ Mayor Daley of Chicago is preparing
a suit against gun manufacturers, saying they should be held liable
for violence, like tobacco companies for sickness. (Scheduled to
move by 9 p.m. ET in ``a'' news file.)

   TOBACCO-CONGRESS (Washington) _ The Senate is expected to vote
on a proposal to limit lawyers' fees in tobacco suits to $1,000 an
hour. By David E. Rosenbaum. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in
``w'' news file.) With photo.

   CAMPAIGN-FINANCE (Washington) _ Campaign finance developments.
By Alison Mitchell. (Scheduled to move by 9 p.m. ET in ``w'' news
file.)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0282 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:49 ',
			header: '
A5361 &Cx1f; tta-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-REED-POLITICS-ART-2TA     06-11 1138
',
			slug: ' BC-REED-POLITICS-ART-2TAKES-NYT ',
			headline: '
RALPH REED AIMS TO BROADEN SOCIAL CONSERVATIVES' APPEAL 
',
			trailer: '
   DULUTH, Ga. _ In his tidy corner office in this northern suburb
of Atlanta, Ralph Reed sits atop a fault line.

   It is the widening schism between the purists and the
pragmatists within America's religious right. When Reed picks up
the telephone these days to speak to the clients of his new
political consulting business, which he formed last year after
leaving the Christian Coalition, the discussions often reflect the
tensions between moral rectitude and electoral expediency that have
riven America's most influential faith-based political movement.

   Reed, who came to politics long before he came to Christ, is a
stalwart of the accommodationist wing of the Christian conservative
movement. At the moment, his greatest challenge is getting one of
his clients, Alabama Gov. Fob James, through a Republican primary
runoff June 30 that centers on whether James has become an
embarrassment to his state with his ardent advocacy of causes like
prayer in the schools.

   But the success or failure of Reed's overarching mission _ to
broaden the message of social conservatives, and thereby win
offices as well as souls _ has sweeping implications for the
Republican Party as it heads toward the year 2000. Holding on to
the Republican base among Christian conservatives while reaching
out to the swing voters in the middle has become the party's
paramount challenge in national elections.

   ``I believe the American people care deeply about these moral
issues,'' Reed said in an interview. ``But I don't think that you
win elections by talking about only one issue. I think you win
elections by talking about a range of issues that people are
concerned about.''

   It was Reed, executive director of the Christian Coalition from
1989 to 1997, who encouraged religious conservatives to be patient
with the Republican-led Congress that was elected in 1994, who
urged expansion of the moral agenda beyond opposition to abortion
and gay rights to include issues of taxes and term limits, and who
offered a welcoming hand to blacks and non-Christians.

   These days, with the Republican primary season in full bloom, he
is giving the same advice to his 27 paying customers, including
three candidates for governor, two for the U.S. Senate, eight for
the House of Representatives and six for lesser statewide offices.

   Reed recognizes that social conservatives, while often the
largest single component of the Republican primary electorate, are
rarely a majority, even in the Bible Belt. And so he is urging
candidates to broaden their appeal, not by cloaking their stands on
social issues but by emphasizing other positions as well.

   ``We believe that strong stands on moral issues are an asset and
not a liability at the ballot box,'' Reed said. ``But we also
believe that politics is poker and not solitaire, and we think you
need to have more than one card in your deck. We think that a
moral, socially conservative candidate is made stronger by having
equally compelling stands on crime and taxes and welfare.''

   But other leaders of the religious right, most notably Gary
Bauer of the Family Research Council and James Dobson of Focus on
the Family, complain that Christian conservatives have little to
show for two decades of avid support for Republican candidates.
Just as black political leaders often maintain that the Democratic
Party has taken them for granted, these ``purists'' now speak
openly of defecting from the Republican Party.

   That, Reed asserts, would be folly.

   ``If the pro-family movement bolts the Republican Party, they
will become the cultural equivalent of a Perot movement,'' he said.
``They will enter a no man's land in which they lose influence and
lose the ability to use a major political party as a vehicle to
highlight their issues and their agenda and their concerns.''

   Because of the rift within the Christian conservative movement,
Reed's successes and failures this year will be scrutinized as a
measure of a strategic approach that could have a significant
bearing on the 2000 presidential campaign.

   Reed speaks regularly to five prospective Republican
presidential candidates: Sen. John Ashcroft of Missouri, Texas Gov.
George W. Bush, publisher Steve Forbes, Rep. John Kasich of Ohio
and former Vice President Dan Quayle. Four of those men, Reed said
without identifying them, have expressed an interest in retaining
his firm, Century Strategies.

   His observation of recent Republican presidential campaigns,
including that of 1996 nominee Bob Dole, shaped his view that the
party's candidates must take authentic positions and stick with
them throughout a campaign. The traditional Republican strategy of
running to the right in the primaries and then moving to the center
for the general election can be fatal, he said.

   ``I think that your message in the primary has got to be one
that you're comfortable taking to most voters,'' he said. ``You
can't whiplash a guy.''

   At 36, the boyish Reed has already earned a doctorate in
American history, worked in numerous campaigns, built the Christian
Coalition into a grass-roots organizing force, written two books,
fathered four children and made the cover of Time magazine. Last
year he moved back to his home state of Georgia, created a
10-person consulting firm and set the ambitious goal of electing
100 ``pro-family, pro-faith, pro-free-enterprise'' candidates to
Congress in the next 10 years.

   ``If we can do that,'' Reed said, ``we'll transform the
political landscape of the country.''

   For Reed, who accepts as clients only those who oppose abortion,
legalized gambling and higher taxes, the transition to for-profit
politics has been a comfortable one. His conversations these days
are laced with the lingo of television buys, polling
cross-tabulations and direct-mail techniques. While he still cites
Bible verses, it is often to make a political point.

   ``I think he's totally disconnected himself from his previous
job,'' said Mike Burton, the campaign manager for James. ``When we
sit down with Ralph Reed, it's a person who's totally pragmatic and
not doctrinal from a religious point of view. He looks at numbers
and what it takes to get elected.''

   While political consultants are ultimately gauged by their
ability to win general elections in competitive races, Reed has
shown early signs of success. Thus far, four of his candidates have
won primaries, one has lost, and two face primary runoffs.

   nn

   In many of those campaigns, Reed's mission has been to balance
the public image of Republican candidates who are already well
known for their conservative stands on social issues.

   With state Sen. Gex Williams, an ardent abortion foe who won the
May 26 primary in Kentucky's 4th Congressional District, Reed
encouraged his candidate to talk more about taxes, and recruited
Forbes, the father of the flat tax, to campaign for him.

   With state Sen. Michael Fair of South Carolina, a social
conservative who faces a primary runoff in that state's 4th
Congressional District, Reed has positioned his client as an
apostle of term limits.

   In Alabama, Reed urged James to start talking more about his
pledge to resist tax increases and less about his campaign to bring
prayer and other religious expression to public schools and
courtrooms.

   ``My view is that Fob James, because of the extensive media
coverage on that issue, is already well known to Alabama voters for
that stand,'' said Reed, who is the main consultant to the James
campaign. ``And I don't think it's the best use of campaign
resources to build a base that you already have in your back
pocket.''

   But in James, Reed has a notoriously independent and often
undisciplined candidate, and his efforts were only partly
successful.

   In the final weeks before the June 2 primary, James managed to
gain ground in the polls, at least partly by forcing his leading
rival, Winton Blount III, to reject a pledge against tax increases.

   But the governor shunned Reed's advice against raising the
school prayer issue in his television advertising. Toward the end
of the primary campaign, he ran a commercial in which a teacher
praised him for appealing a federal judge's rejection of an Alabama
statute that would have allowed student-led school prayer.

   In the end, James' efforts fell just short. He won a 48 percent
plurality of the vote rather than an outright majority, and was
forced into a runoff with Blount.

   Clearly, some candidates have hired Reed to exploit his
credentials with Christian conservative voters. And in one
instance, he has served not only as a behind-the-scenes strategist
but also as an on-the-air pitchman.

   Mitch Skandalakis, a Reed client running for lieutenant governor
in Georgia, is broadcasting an advertisement on Christian radio
stations in which Reed praises his client's stands against abortion
and gambling. The advertisement rebuts criticism from an opponent,
former state Sen. Clint Day, that Skandalakis' record on those
issues is too moderate.

   ``Obviously we wanted someone who has credibility with the
religious right and can say with 100 percent certainty that the guy
he's supporting shares their message and values,'' Skandalakis, the
chairman of the Fulton County Commission, said in explaining why he
had hired Reed.

   But while Reed's advertisement describes Skandalakis as ``a
Ronald Reagan conservative and a pro-family champion,'' it neglects
to mention that the Reed firm is being paid $7,500 a month by the
Skandalakis campaign. Reed said the omission of such a disclosure
was an oversight. ``I probably should have put it in there,'' he
said.

   Not surprisingly, Day's campaign takes a less generous view.

   ``The Ralph Reed endorsement radio ad is intentionally designed
to mislead voters,'' said Ron Butler, a spokesman for Day. ``It's a
pitiful shame that Ralph Reed is willing to prostitute himself like
this.''

   Reed acknowledges that he may become an issue in some campaigns,
particularly in the general election, when his clients must appeal
to independent voters and Democrats. But he says he is not worried.

   ``I tend to think that anyone who tries to make me an issue is
probably going to end up regretting it,'' he said. ``I just don't
think most voters care about that. My name's not on the ballot.''
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: Ga., Ala., S.C., Ky., Mo., Ohio, Texas)  (ART ADV: Photo is being sent to NYT photo clients. Non-subscribers
can make individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(bl) 
 By KEVIN SACK   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   DULUTH, Ga. _ In his tidy corner office in this northern suburb
of Atlanta, Ralph Reed sits atop a fault line.

   It is the widening schism between the purists and the
pragmatists within America's religious right. When Reed picks up
the telephone these days to speak to the clients of his new
political consulting business, which he formed last year after
leaving the Christian Coalition, the discussions often reflect the
tensions between moral rectitude and electoral expediency that have
riven America's most influential faith-based political movement.

   Reed, who came to politics long before he came to Christ, is a
stalwart of the accommodationist wing of the Christian conservative
movement. At the moment, his greatest challenge is getting one of
his clients, Alabama Gov. Fob James, through a Republican primary
runoff June 30 that centers on whether James has become an
embarrassment to his state with his ardent advocacy of causes like
prayer in the schools.

   But the success or failure of Reed's overarching mission _ to
broaden the message of social conservatives, and thereby win
offices as well as souls _ has sweeping implications for the
Republican Party as it heads toward the year 2000. Holding on to
the Republican base among Christian conservatives while reaching
out to the swing voters in the middle has become the party's
paramount challenge in national elections.

   ``I believe the American people care deeply about these moral
issues,'' Reed said in an interview. ``But I don't think that you
win elections by talking about only one issue. I think you win
elections by talking about a range of issues that people are
concerned about.''

   It was Reed, executive director of the Christian Coalition from
1989 to 1997, who encouraged religious conservatives to be patient
with the Republican-led Congress that was elected in 1994, who
urged expansion of the moral agenda beyond opposition to abortion
and gay rights to include issues of taxes and term limits, and who
offered a welcoming hand to blacks and non-Christians.

   These days, with the Republican primary season in full bloom, he
is giving the same advice to his 27 paying customers, including
three candidates for governor, two for the U.S. Senate, eight for
the House of Representatives and six for lesser statewide offices.

   Reed recognizes that social conservatives, while often the
largest single component of the Republican primary electorate, are
rarely a majority, even in the Bible Belt. And so he is urging
candidates to broaden their appeal, not by cloaking their stands on
social issues but by emphasizing other positions as well.

   ``We believe that strong stands on moral issues are an asset and
not a liability at the ballot box,'' Reed said. ``But we also
believe that politics is poker and not solitaire, and we think you
need to have more than one card in your deck. We think that a
moral, socially conservative candidate is made stronger by having
equally compelling stands on crime and taxes and welfare.''

   But other leaders of the religious right, most notably Gary
Bauer of the Family Research Council and James Dobson of Focus on
the Family, complain that Christian conservatives have little to
show for two decades of avid support for Republican candidates.
Just as black political leaders often maintain that the Democratic
Party has taken them for granted, these ``purists'' now speak
openly of defecting from the Republican Party.

   That, Reed asserts, would be folly.

   ``If the pro-family movement bolts the Republican Party, they
will become the cultural equivalent of a Perot movement,'' he said.
``They will enter a no man's land in which they lose influence and
lose the ability to use a major political party as a vehicle to
highlight their issues and their agenda and their concerns.''

   Because of the rift within the Christian conservative movement,
Reed's successes and failures this year will be scrutinized as a
measure of a strategic approach that could have a significant
bearing on the 2000 presidential campaign.

   Reed speaks regularly to five prospective Republican
presidential candidates: Sen. John Ashcroft of Missouri, Texas Gov.
George W. Bush, publisher Steve Forbes, Rep. John Kasich of Ohio
and former Vice President Dan Quayle. Four of those men, Reed said
without identifying them, have expressed an interest in retaining
his firm, Century Strategies.

   His observation of recent Republican presidential campaigns,
including that of 1996 nominee Bob Dole, shaped his view that the
party's candidates must take authentic positions and stick with
them throughout a campaign. The traditional Republican strategy of
running to the right in the primaries and then moving to the center
for the general election can be fatal, he said.

   ``I think that your message in the primary has got to be one
that you're comfortable taking to most voters,'' he said. ``You
can't whiplash a guy.''

   At 36, the boyish Reed has already earned a doctorate in
American history, worked in numerous campaigns, built the Christian
Coalition into a grass-roots organizing force, written two books,
fathered four children and made the cover of Time magazine. Last
year he moved back to his home state of Georgia, created a
10-person consulting firm and set the ambitious goal of electing
100 ``pro-family, pro-faith, pro-free-enterprise'' candidates to
Congress in the next 10 years.

   ``If we can do that,'' Reed said, ``we'll transform the
political landscape of the country.''

   For Reed, who accepts as clients only those who oppose abortion,
legalized gambling and higher taxes, the transition to for-profit
politics has been a comfortable one. His conversations these days
are laced with the lingo of television buys, polling
cross-tabulations and direct-mail techniques. While he still cites
Bible verses, it is often to make a political point.

   ``I think he's totally disconnected himself from his previous
job,'' said Mike Burton, the campaign manager for James. ``When we
sit down with Ralph Reed, it's a person who's totally pragmatic and
not doctrinal from a religious point of view. He looks at numbers
and what it takes to get elected.''

   While political consultants are ultimately gauged by their
ability to win general elections in competitive races, Reed has
shown early signs of success. Thus far, four of his candidates have
won primaries, one has lost, and two face primary runoffs.

   nn

   In many of those campaigns, Reed's mission has been to balance
the public image of Republican candidates who are already well
known for their conservative stands on social issues.

   With state Sen. Gex Williams, an ardent abortion foe who won the
May 26 primary in Kentucky's 4th Congressional District, Reed
encouraged his candidate to talk more about taxes, and recruited
Forbes, the father of the flat tax, to campaign for him.

   With state Sen. Michael Fair of South Carolina, a social
conservative who faces a primary runoff in that state's 4th
Congressional District, Reed has positioned his client as an
apostle of term limits.

   In Alabama, Reed urged James to start talking more about his
pledge to resist tax increases and less about his campaign to bring
prayer and other religious expression to public schools and
courtrooms.

   ``My view is that Fob James, because of the extensive media
coverage on that issue, is already well known to Alabama voters for
that stand,'' said Reed, who is the main consultant to the James
campaign. ``And I don't think it's the best use of campaign
resources to build a base that you already have in your back
pocket.''

   But in James, Reed has a notoriously independent and often
undisciplined candidate, and his efforts were only partly
successful.

   In the final weeks before the June 2 primary, James managed to
gain ground in the polls, at least partly by forcing his leading
rival, Winton Blount III, to reject a pledge against tax increases.

   But the governor shunned Reed's advice against raising the
school prayer issue in his television advertising. Toward the end
of the primary campaign, he ran a commercial in which a teacher
praised him for appealing a federal judge's rejection of an Alabama
statute that would have allowed student-led school prayer.

   In the end, James' efforts fell just short. He won a 48 percent
plurality of the vote rather than an outright majority, and was
forced into a runoff with Blount.

   Clearly, some candidates have hired Reed to exploit his
credentials with Christian conservative voters. And in one
instance, he has served not only as a behind-the-scenes strategist
but also as an on-the-air pitchman.

   Mitch Skandalakis, a Reed client running for lieutenant governor
in Georgia, is broadcasting an advertisement on Christian radio
stations in which Reed praises his client's stands against abortion
and gambling. The advertisement rebuts criticism from an opponent,
former state Sen. Clint Day, that Skandalakis' record on those
issues is too moderate.

   ``Obviously we wanted someone who has credibility with the
religious right and can say with 100 percent certainty that the guy
he's supporting shares their message and values,'' Skandalakis, the
chairman of the Fulton County Commission, said in explaining why he
had hired Reed.

   But while Reed's advertisement describes Skandalakis as ``a
Ronald Reagan conservative and a pro-family champion,'' it neglects
to mention that the Reed firm is being paid $7,500 a month by the
Skandalakis campaign. Reed said the omission of such a disclosure
was an oversight. ``I probably should have put it in there,'' he
said.

   Not surprisingly, Day's campaign takes a less generous view.

   ``The Ralph Reed endorsement radio ad is intentionally designed
to mislead voters,'' said Ron Butler, a spokesman for Day. ``It's a
pitiful shame that Ralph Reed is willing to prostitute himself like
this.''

   Reed acknowledges that he may become an issue in some campaigns,
particularly in the general election, when his clients must appeal
to independent voters and Democrats. But he says he is not worried.

   ``I tend to think that anyone who tries to make me an issue is
probably going to end up regretting it,'' he said. ``I just don't
think most voters care about that. My name's not on the ballot.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0284 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:52 ',
			header: '
A5364 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CARS-COLLECT-SAHARA-N     06-11 0245
',
			slug: ' BC-CARS-COLLECT-SAHARA-NYT ',
			headline: '
AUTO COLLECTING: A GALLIC DUCK'S ODDEST OFFSPRING 
',
			trailer: '
   Perhaps the strangest variant of the 2CV was the twin-engined
Sahara. It had a pair of 425-cubic-centimeter engines, one at each
end of the car and each driving an axle. Built in response to a
request from Total, the French oil company, the Sahara was designed
for geologists looking for oil in the North African desert.

   Individual throttle cables ran to a single gas pedal. It was
possible to have the engines and the axles they were driving
running at different speeds, which, if everything was not perfectly
synchronized, led to interesting handling characteristics as one
end of the car attempted to go around a turn at a different speed
from the other.

   Performance of this primitive sport utility might be charitably
described as leisurely, since the Sahara weighed 1,800 pounds,
compared with 1,100 pounds for a regular 2CV.

   Only 694 Saharas were built between 1959 and 1967, and most were
shipped to Africa, the Pyrenees mountains in Spain and, for police
use, to French Polynesia. Fewer than 25 are thought to exist today.

   Saharas have a tiny but devoted following. An unrestored car
bought in 1991 for $6,000 was sold last year for $9,500. A fully
restored Sahara sold at a Paris auction in March for $23,500.
',
			body: '


   (With CARS-COLLECTING)  
 (Eds: Also moved in ``f'' category.)  
(lb) 
 By KEITH MARTIN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   Perhaps the strangest variant of the 2CV was the twin-engined
Sahara. It had a pair of 425-cubic-centimeter engines, one at each
end of the car and each driving an axle. Built in response to a
request from Total, the French oil company, the Sahara was designed
for geologists looking for oil in the North African desert.

   Individual throttle cables ran to a single gas pedal. It was
possible to have the engines and the axles they were driving
running at different speeds, which, if everything was not perfectly
synchronized, led to interesting handling characteristics as one
end of the car attempted to go around a turn at a different speed
from the other.

   Performance of this primitive sport utility might be charitably
described as leisurely, since the Sahara weighed 1,800 pounds,
compared with 1,100 pounds for a regular 2CV.

   Only 694 Saharas were built between 1959 and 1967, and most were
shipped to Africa, the Pyrenees mountains in Spain and, for police
use, to French Polynesia. Fewer than 25 are thought to exist today.

   Saharas have a tiny but devoted following. An unrestored car
bought in 1991 for $6,000 was sold last year for $9,500. A fully
restored Sahara sold at a Paris auction in March for $23,500.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0285 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:52 ',
			header: '
A5365 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CARS-COLLECT-SAHARA-N     06-11 0245
',
			slug: ' BC-CARS-COLLECT-SAHARA-NYT ',
			headline: '
AUTO COLLECTING: A GALLIC DUCK'S ODDEST OFFSPRING 
',
			trailer: '
   Perhaps the strangest variant of the 2CV was the twin-engined
Sahara. It had a pair of 425-cubic-centimeter engines, one at each
end of the car and each driving an axle. Built in response to a
request from Total, the French oil company, the Sahara was designed
for geologists looking for oil in the North African desert.

   Individual throttle cables ran to a single gas pedal. It was
possible to have the engines and the axles they were driving
running at different speeds, which, if everything was not perfectly
synchronized, led to interesting handling characteristics as one
end of the car attempted to go around a turn at a different speed
from the other.

   Performance of this primitive sport utility might be charitably
described as leisurely, since the Sahara weighed 1,800 pounds,
compared with 1,100 pounds for a regular 2CV.

   Only 694 Saharas were built between 1959 and 1967, and most were
shipped to Africa, the Pyrenees mountains in Spain and, for police
use, to French Polynesia. Fewer than 25 are thought to exist today.

   Saharas have a tiny but devoted following. An unrestored car
bought in 1991 for $6,000 was sold last year for $9,500. A fully
restored Sahara sold at a Paris auction in March for $23,500.
',
			body: '


   (With CARS-COLLECTING)  
 (Eds: Also moved in ``a'' category.)  
(lb) 
 By KEITH MARTIN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   Perhaps the strangest variant of the 2CV was the twin-engined
Sahara. It had a pair of 425-cubic-centimeter engines, one at each
end of the car and each driving an axle. Built in response to a
request from Total, the French oil company, the Sahara was designed
for geologists looking for oil in the North African desert.

   Individual throttle cables ran to a single gas pedal. It was
possible to have the engines and the axles they were driving
running at different speeds, which, if everything was not perfectly
synchronized, led to interesting handling characteristics as one
end of the car attempted to go around a turn at a different speed
from the other.

   Performance of this primitive sport utility might be charitably
described as leisurely, since the Sahara weighed 1,800 pounds,
compared with 1,100 pounds for a regular 2CV.

   Only 694 Saharas were built between 1959 and 1967, and most were
shipped to Africa, the Pyrenees mountains in Spain and, for police
use, to French Polynesia. Fewer than 25 are thought to exist today.

   Saharas have a tiny but devoted following. An unrestored car
bought in 1991 for $6,000 was sold last year for $9,500. A fully
restored Sahara sold at a Paris auction in March for $23,500.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0286 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:53 ',
			header: '
A5366 &Cx1f; tta-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CHINA-CLINTON-ART-NYT     06-11 0991
',
			slug: ' BC-CHINA-CLINTON-ART-NYT ',
			headline: '
CLINTON DEFENDS TRIP TO CHINA 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Forced by an angry Congress to justify his summit
meeting in China this month, President Clinton on Thursday
described his policy of cooperation with Beijing as ``principled
and pragmatic.''

   He said it was in Washington's interest to engage China on
shared commercial and security issues, while not turning a blind
eye to Beijing's troubling human rights record.

   The president's 30-minute address failed to quiet critics, who
continued to urge him to cancel the trip, which starts on June 25,
as a show of displeasure for China's internal policies and what
they say is Beijing's failure to stem the spread of dangerous
weaponry.

   Clinton, who spoke at the National Geographic Society, outlined
a policy of engagement toward China that mirrors the rationale of
several of his predecessors for dealing with repressive regimes,
from the Soviet Union to South Africa: Clinton said he seeks to
weave China in an international web of obligations, and thus bring
China's 1.2 billion people into a new era of political and economic
freedoms.

   Clinton insisted that he is steering a moderate course between
the two extremes his critics espouse. Some, he said, believe the
United States should isolate China because of human rights abuses
and the slowness of its progress toward democracy. Others believe,
he said, that expanding business contacts with Beijing is the only
policy that can lead to liberalization.

   ``We have chosen a different course,'' the president said.
``Seeking to isolate China is clearly unworkable. Even our friends
and allies around the world do not support us in that. We would
succeed instead in isolating ourselves and our own policy.

   ``China will choose its own destiny, but we can influence that
choice by making the right choice ourselves _ working with China
where we can, dealing directly with our differences where we must.

   ``Seeking to isolate China will not free one more political
dissident, will not open one more church to those who wish to
worship, will do nothing to encourage China to live by the laws it
has written. Instead, it will limit our ability to advance human
rights and religious and political freedom.''

   Clinton's address was an answer to critics on Capitol Hill and
among human rights and religious groups who want him to cancel the
trip, or at least drastically reduce his nine-day itinerary and
avoid the official welcoming ceremony adjacent to Tiananmen Square.

   Clinton also continued his defense of a policy that allowed
American aerospace companies to export sophisticated satellites for
launching aboard Chinese rockets. Congress and the Justice
Department are investigating whether the policy allowed China to
divert advanced American technology and improve the accuracy of its
military rockets.

   Clinton said the administration's engagement policy had produced
concrete results, including the recent release of several prominent
dissidents, a pledge by China to end the sale of nuclear technology
and anti-ship missiles to Iran and Beijing's role in international
efforts to halt the nuclear arms race between India and Pakistan.

   Answering those who say he should avoid the area of Tiananmen
Square, scene of the Chinese military's deadly assault on
pro-democracy demonstrators in June 1989, Clinton said he could not
dictate to China's leaders how they should receive a visiting head
of state.

   He noted that President Jacques Chirac of France and Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel had recently been welcomed at
Tiananmen Square. In a protest over the violent suppression of
dissent, no U.S. president has visited China since 1989.

   ``Some have suggested I should refuse to take part in this
traditional ceremony,'' the president said, ``that somehow going
there would absolve the Chinese government of its responsibility
for the terrible killings at Tiananmen Square nine years ago, or
indicate that America is no longer concerned about such conduct.
They are wrong.

   ``Protocol and honoring a nation's traditional practices should
not be confused with principle. China's leaders, as I have
repeatedly said, can only move beyond the events of June 1989 when
they recognize the reality that what the government did was wrong.
Sooner or later they must do that.''

   He said that permitting the launching of American satellites on
Chinese rockets served American interests by bringing television
and telephone services to the Chinese and by giving Beijing an
incentive to observe non-proliferation agreements. He said
sensitive American technology is protected by ``strict safeguards''
that prevent its transfer to military programs, although there is
evidence that the Chinese have indeed gained critical military
knowledge through the satellite program.

   Sen. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn., said the president was presenting
the Chinese leadership with a public relations coup while demanding
very little in return.

   ``It is not a question of whether to isolate or engage China,''
Wellstone said in a statement. ``It is a question of how we engage
that nation.''

   ``The Chinese have avidly sought a presidential visit,''
Wellstone added, ``because it signals to all at home and abroad
that the United States has muffled its opposition to, and endorses
cooperation with, the Beijing government, the same government that
continues to deny its citizens basic human rights and freedoms.

   ``By agreeing to a presidential visit without significant human
rights preconditions _ not merely token gestures _ I fear the
administration may be squandering a tremendous source of leverage
with the Chinese government.''
',
			body: '


  (See also CHINA-CONGRESS) 
(ART ADV: Photo is being made available NYT photo clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or -1927.) 
(ja) 
 By JOHN M. BRODER    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Forced by an angry Congress to justify his summit
meeting in China this month, President Clinton on Thursday
described his policy of cooperation with Beijing as ``principled
and pragmatic.''

   He said it was in Washington's interest to engage China on
shared commercial and security issues, while not turning a blind
eye to Beijing's troubling human rights record.

   The president's 30-minute address failed to quiet critics, who
continued to urge him to cancel the trip, which starts on June 25,
as a show of displeasure for China's internal policies and what
they say is Beijing's failure to stem the spread of dangerous
weaponry.

   Clinton, who spoke at the National Geographic Society, outlined
a policy of engagement toward China that mirrors the rationale of
several of his predecessors for dealing with repressive regimes,
from the Soviet Union to South Africa: Clinton said he seeks to
weave China in an international web of obligations, and thus bring
China's 1.2 billion people into a new era of political and economic
freedoms.

   Clinton insisted that he is steering a moderate course between
the two extremes his critics espouse. Some, he said, believe the
United States should isolate China because of human rights abuses
and the slowness of its progress toward democracy. Others believe,
he said, that expanding business contacts with Beijing is the only
policy that can lead to liberalization.

   ``We have chosen a different course,'' the president said.
``Seeking to isolate China is clearly unworkable. Even our friends
and allies around the world do not support us in that. We would
succeed instead in isolating ourselves and our own policy.

   ``China will choose its own destiny, but we can influence that
choice by making the right choice ourselves _ working with China
where we can, dealing directly with our differences where we must.

   ``Seeking to isolate China will not free one more political
dissident, will not open one more church to those who wish to
worship, will do nothing to encourage China to live by the laws it
has written. Instead, it will limit our ability to advance human
rights and religious and political freedom.''

   Clinton's address was an answer to critics on Capitol Hill and
among human rights and religious groups who want him to cancel the
trip, or at least drastically reduce his nine-day itinerary and
avoid the official welcoming ceremony adjacent to Tiananmen Square.

   Clinton also continued his defense of a policy that allowed
American aerospace companies to export sophisticated satellites for
launching aboard Chinese rockets. Congress and the Justice
Department are investigating whether the policy allowed China to
divert advanced American technology and improve the accuracy of its
military rockets.

   Clinton said the administration's engagement policy had produced
concrete results, including the recent release of several prominent
dissidents, a pledge by China to end the sale of nuclear technology
and anti-ship missiles to Iran and Beijing's role in international
efforts to halt the nuclear arms race between India and Pakistan.

   Answering those who say he should avoid the area of Tiananmen
Square, scene of the Chinese military's deadly assault on
pro-democracy demonstrators in June 1989, Clinton said he could not
dictate to China's leaders how they should receive a visiting head
of state.

   He noted that President Jacques Chirac of France and Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel had recently been welcomed at
Tiananmen Square. In a protest over the violent suppression of
dissent, no U.S. president has visited China since 1989.

   ``Some have suggested I should refuse to take part in this
traditional ceremony,'' the president said, ``that somehow going
there would absolve the Chinese government of its responsibility
for the terrible killings at Tiananmen Square nine years ago, or
indicate that America is no longer concerned about such conduct.
They are wrong.

   ``Protocol and honoring a nation's traditional practices should
not be confused with principle. China's leaders, as I have
repeatedly said, can only move beyond the events of June 1989 when
they recognize the reality that what the government did was wrong.
Sooner or later they must do that.''

   He said that permitting the launching of American satellites on
Chinese rockets served American interests by bringing television
and telephone services to the Chinese and by giving Beijing an
incentive to observe non-proliferation agreements. He said
sensitive American technology is protected by ``strict safeguards''
that prevent its transfer to military programs, although there is
evidence that the Chinese have indeed gained critical military
knowledge through the satellite program.

   Sen. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn., said the president was presenting
the Chinese leadership with a public relations coup while demanding
very little in return.

   ``It is not a question of whether to isolate or engage China,''
Wellstone said in a statement. ``It is a question of how we engage
that nation.''

   ``The Chinese have avidly sought a presidential visit,''
Wellstone added, ``because it signals to all at home and abroad
that the United States has muffled its opposition to, and endorses
cooperation with, the Beijing government, the same government that
continues to deny its citizens basic human rights and freedoms.

   ``By agreeing to a presidential visit without significant human
rights preconditions _ not merely token gestures _ I fear the
administration may be squandering a tremendous source of leverage
with the Chinese government.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0287 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:55 ',
			header: '
A5370 &Cx1f; taf-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-INDONESIA-MILITARY-NY     06-11 0797
',
			slug: ' BC-INDONESIA-MILITARY-NYT ',
			headline: '
INDONESIAN MILITARY BACKS REFORM WHILE THREATENING CRACKDOWN
',
			trailer: '
   JAKARTA, Indonesia _ Indonesia's powerful military affirmed its
backing Thursday for the reform movement that is spreading new
freedoms through the country, but warned that it would crack down
if protests got out of hand.

   At a news conference, the defense minister and armed forces
chief, Gen. Wiranto, also asserted his support for the new
administration of President B.J. Habibie and urged people to be
patient and allow it to pursue reforms.

   Wiranto said he had ordered the military to monitor the reforms
_ which include a proliferation of new political parties, a free
press, labor activism and student demonstrations _ to keep them
from destabilizing the nation.

   ``Many countries were able to start reform but unable to end the
process properly, as happened with the Soviet Union with its
glasnost and perestroika movement,'' Wiranto said. ``The armed
forces will use the authority with which it is vested to take part
in safeguarding and controlling the reform movement.''

   As one example, armed soldiers standing by did not intervene as
4,000 students demonstrated Thursday outside the locked gates of
Parliament, where their five-day sit-in last month had helped to
bring down President Suharto.

   The paradox of freedom and threat was evident Thursday on the
city's streets, where jubilant protesters waved flags from the tops
of buses and shouted abuse at the government while soldiers in
battle fatigues held their assault rifles at the ready but took no
action.

   Many of the student demonstrators are calling on Habibie, who
was Suharto's hand-picked vice president, to step down and allow a
new breed of leaders to take over. They are backed by opponents of
the government who air their views on almost-daily television round
tables.

   But Wiranto said the armed forces saw Habibie as the country's
``constitutionally legal'' leader and would defend any
extra-constitutional attacks on his tenure.

   The general's news conference followed a meeting with Habibie
where he was joined by more than 100 of the country's top officers
in a show of solidarity.

   Wiranto voiced concern that the spreading demonstrations could
degenerate into anarchy. The demonstrations and sit-ins have
focused on local officials who are seen as corrupt and factories
where workers have in the past been prevented from expressing their
grievances.

   The general said he had ordered military officers and police
chiefs to take action against any ``unconstitutional'' activities.

   ``The reform movement in the country must be controlled and
watched to prevent it from getting out of hand,'' he said. ``The
most dangerous thing that can happen is its manipulation by certain
groups whose real objectives differ from the movement's pure
aspirations.''

   Without citing any groups by name, he said: ``We can see their
activities in the provinces. They show their hand in excessive
demonstrations or in such actions as the occupation of government
offices. We cannot allow these activities to continue
indefinitely.''

   The daily newspaper Kompas Thursday quoted the Jakarta military
commander, Maj. Gen. Syafrie Syamsuddin, as saying he had ordered
his forces to secure the safety of the capital. He said 25,000
troops were currently deployed here.

   During the meeting with military leaders, Habibie called on them
to act with professionalism and also ordered an investigation into
growing claims that organized groups were involved in fomenting the
riots that swept through Jakarta and other cities immediately
before Suharto's resignation on May 21.

   Human rights groups who are documenting such activities say they
do not know who might have been involved but suggest that some
branches of the military or security services may be to blame.

   Habibie said, ``I ask the armed forces to disclose the truth
about rumors that at several locations, riots and looting were
organized by certain groups who incited people to burn and to
loot.''

   The human rights groups say they have documented 1,188 deaths in
Jakarta alone during three days of rioting, as well as the
destruction of more than 4,000 businesses, 1,000 homes and 1,000
vehicles. They have accused the military of failing to act to
prevent and quell the riots.

   Human rights groups and women's crisis centers also say more
than 100 women were attacked or raped during the riots in a
campaign of brutality.

   In his address to the military leaders, Habibie said, ``In
avoiding and containing riots and disturbances, a high level of
professional ability is needed so that the duty can be implemented
without victims.''
',
			body: '


   (ja) 
 By SETH MYDANS    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   JAKARTA, Indonesia _ Indonesia's powerful military affirmed its
backing Thursday for the reform movement that is spreading new
freedoms through the country, but warned that it would crack down
if protests got out of hand.

   At a news conference, the defense minister and armed forces
chief, Gen. Wiranto, also asserted his support for the new
administration of President B.J. Habibie and urged people to be
patient and allow it to pursue reforms.

   Wiranto said he had ordered the military to monitor the reforms
_ which include a proliferation of new political parties, a free
press, labor activism and student demonstrations _ to keep them
from destabilizing the nation.

   ``Many countries were able to start reform but unable to end the
process properly, as happened with the Soviet Union with its
glasnost and perestroika movement,'' Wiranto said. ``The armed
forces will use the authority with which it is vested to take part
in safeguarding and controlling the reform movement.''

   As one example, armed soldiers standing by did not intervene as
4,000 students demonstrated Thursday outside the locked gates of
Parliament, where their five-day sit-in last month had helped to
bring down President Suharto.

   The paradox of freedom and threat was evident Thursday on the
city's streets, where jubilant protesters waved flags from the tops
of buses and shouted abuse at the government while soldiers in
battle fatigues held their assault rifles at the ready but took no
action.

   Many of the student demonstrators are calling on Habibie, who
was Suharto's hand-picked vice president, to step down and allow a
new breed of leaders to take over. They are backed by opponents of
the government who air their views on almost-daily television round
tables.

   But Wiranto said the armed forces saw Habibie as the country's
``constitutionally legal'' leader and would defend any
extra-constitutional attacks on his tenure.

   The general's news conference followed a meeting with Habibie
where he was joined by more than 100 of the country's top officers
in a show of solidarity.

   Wiranto voiced concern that the spreading demonstrations could
degenerate into anarchy. The demonstrations and sit-ins have
focused on local officials who are seen as corrupt and factories
where workers have in the past been prevented from expressing their
grievances.

   The general said he had ordered military officers and police
chiefs to take action against any ``unconstitutional'' activities.

   ``The reform movement in the country must be controlled and
watched to prevent it from getting out of hand,'' he said. ``The
most dangerous thing that can happen is its manipulation by certain
groups whose real objectives differ from the movement's pure
aspirations.''

   Without citing any groups by name, he said: ``We can see their
activities in the provinces. They show their hand in excessive
demonstrations or in such actions as the occupation of government
offices. We cannot allow these activities to continue
indefinitely.''

   The daily newspaper Kompas Thursday quoted the Jakarta military
commander, Maj. Gen. Syafrie Syamsuddin, as saying he had ordered
his forces to secure the safety of the capital. He said 25,000
troops were currently deployed here.

   During the meeting with military leaders, Habibie called on them
to act with professionalism and also ordered an investigation into
growing claims that organized groups were involved in fomenting the
riots that swept through Jakarta and other cities immediately
before Suharto's resignation on May 21.

   Human rights groups who are documenting such activities say they
do not know who might have been involved but suggest that some
branches of the military or security services may be to blame.

   Habibie said, ``I ask the armed forces to disclose the truth
about rumors that at several locations, riots and looting were
organized by certain groups who incited people to burn and to
loot.''

   The human rights groups say they have documented 1,188 deaths in
Jakarta alone during three days of rioting, as well as the
destruction of more than 4,000 businesses, 1,000 homes and 1,000
vehicles. They have accused the military of failing to act to
prevent and quell the riots.

   Human rights groups and women's crisis centers also say more
than 100 women were attacked or raped during the riots in a
campaign of brutality.

   In his address to the military leaders, Habibie said, ``In
avoiding and containing riots and disturbances, a high level of
professional ability is needed so that the duty can be implemented
without victims.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0288 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:55 ',
			header: '
A5371 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-3R     06-11 0728
',
			slug: ' BC-HEARST-NEWS-BUDGET-3RDLD-WRITETHRU-HNS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   The Hearst News Service has filed or will file these stories for
Friday. If you have questions, please call Susie McBee or Tim
Spence at 202-298-6920. For questions about Houston Chronicle
sports stories, please call the Houston Chronicle Sports
Department, 713-220-7896.

   &LR;  &QL;

   (EDs: RACIAL-ATTACK-NET; SOUTHERN-BAPTISTS; and
ATTENDANT-HARASS.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   (The ``HNS'' tag appears in all sluglines.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   For Friday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CLINTON-CHINA (Washington) _ President Clinton combats mounting
criticism of his mission to China, casting it as a ``principled and
pragmatic'' effort to protect U.S. interests. In a speech, he again
defends his planned participation in an official welcoming ceremony
in Tiananmen Square, where hundreds of pro-democracy demonstrators
were massacred in 1989. By STEWART M. POWELL. (Already filed)

   PELOSI-CHINA (Washington) _ Rep. Nancy Pelosi sharpens her
attacks on President Clinton's China policy, saying the president
is ``either in denial or ill-informed about what's going on in
China.'' By JUDY HOLLAND. (Already filed)

   RENO-JASPER (Washington) _ Attorney General Janet Reno says the
Justice Department will investigate the case of three white men
accused of beating and then dragging a black man to his death in
Jasper, Texas. The department is considering filing federal charges
that the suspects violated the man's civil rights. By MARK HELM.
(Already filed)

   OFFSHORE-OIL (Washington) _ President Clinton is expected to
extend a moratorium on offshore oil development along the
California coast beyond the expiration of the existing moratorium
in 2000. Clinton will announce his decision Friday in California.
By STEWART M. POWELL. (Already filed)

   TOBACCO-SENATE (Washington) _ The Senate continues its
consideration of tobacco legislation that would add $1.10 to the
cost of a pack of cigarettes. One area expected to be debated is
limits on attorney fees in tobacco lawsuits. By BENNETT ROTH.

   NATIONAL NEWS (``a'' category)

   RACIAL-ATTACK (Jasper, Texas) _ The authorities in Jasper have
formed a task force, to be headed by the FBI, to investigate the
slaying of James Byrd Jr. Three white men are accused of beating
and dragging the black man to his death. By RICHARD STEWART and
T.J. MILLING.

   RACIAL-ATTACK-NET (Austin, Texas) _ What is being said by
various groups on the Internet about the alleged racial killing in
Jasper, Texas? By JOHN GONZALEZ.

   SOUTHERN-BAPTISTS (Salt Lake City) _ Southern Baptists end their
annual meeting with continuing criticism of the policies of the
nation's foremost Southern Baptist public official _ President
Clinton. By RICHARD VARA. (Already filed)

   ATTENDANT-HARASS (Conroe, Texas) _ A former flight attendant,
who claimed she was sexually harassed by a Continental Airlines
pilot who used a computer to superimpose her face on the bodies of
bikini-clad and nude women, is awarded about $375,000 by a
sympathetic jury. By PAUL McKAY.

   COMMENTARY (``k'' category)

   MEANS-COLUMN (Washington) _ If you still think the death penalty
is never morally justified, pay attention to the shocking murder in
Texas, in which three white men stand accused of dragging a black
man behind a truck to his death. This is the kind of horror that
cries out for the ultimate punishment. By MARIANNE MEANS. (Already
filed)

   SPORTS (``s'' category)

   BKN-NBAFINALS (Chicago) _ It could be the final game of Michael
Jordan's NBA career. And could there be a more perfect ending to
the Chicago Bulls' run that to wrap up their sixth NBA Championship
on their home court? By EDDIE SEFKO.

   SOC-WORLD-CUP (Bordeaux, France) _ In World Cup action, the
opening-round match between Italy and Chile ends 2-2. By JOHN P.
LOPEZ

   HKN-STANLEY (Detroit) _ The Detroit Red Wings hope to take a 2-0
lead over the Washington Capitals in Game 2 of the Stanley Cup
Finals. By NEIL HOHLFELD.

   BBN-ASTROS (Cincinnati) _ Riding a five-game winning streak and
holding a two-game lead in the NL Central race, the Houston Astros
are in the middle of a soft stretch of the schedule where their
next four opponents are all sub .500 teams. By JOSEPH DUARTE.
',
			body: '

  
 Thursday, June 11, 1998     
 Editors     

',
			paragraphs: '
   The Hearst News Service has filed or will file these stories for
Friday. If you have questions, please call Susie McBee or Tim
Spence at 202-298-6920. For questions about Houston Chronicle
sports stories, please call the Houston Chronicle Sports
Department, 713-220-7896.

   &LR;  &QL;

   (EDs: RACIAL-ATTACK-NET; SOUTHERN-BAPTISTS; and
ATTENDANT-HARASS.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   (The ``HNS'' tag appears in all sluglines.)

   &LR;  &QL;

   For Friday:

   WASHINGTON NEWS (``w'' category)

   CLINTON-CHINA (Washington) _ President Clinton combats mounting
criticism of his mission to China, casting it as a ``principled and
pragmatic'' effort to protect U.S. interests. In a speech, he again
defends his planned participation in an official welcoming ceremony
in Tiananmen Square, where hundreds of pro-democracy demonstrators
were massacred in 1989. By STEWART M. POWELL. (Already filed)

   PELOSI-CHINA (Washington) _ Rep. Nancy Pelosi sharpens her
attacks on President Clinton's China policy, saying the president
is ``either in denial or ill-informed about what's going on in
China.'' By JUDY HOLLAND. (Already filed)

   RENO-JASPER (Washington) _ Attorney General Janet Reno says the
Justice Department will investigate the case of three white men
accused of beating and then dragging a black man to his death in
Jasper, Texas. The department is considering filing federal charges
that the suspects violated the man's civil rights. By MARK HELM.
(Already filed)

   OFFSHORE-OIL (Washington) _ President Clinton is expected to
extend a moratorium on offshore oil development along the
California coast beyond the expiration of the existing moratorium
in 2000. Clinton will announce his decision Friday in California.
By STEWART M. POWELL. (Already filed)

   TOBACCO-SENATE (Washington) _ The Senate continues its
consideration of tobacco legislation that would add $1.10 to the
cost of a pack of cigarettes. One area expected to be debated is
limits on attorney fees in tobacco lawsuits. By BENNETT ROTH.

   NATIONAL NEWS (``a'' category)

   RACIAL-ATTACK (Jasper, Texas) _ The authorities in Jasper have
formed a task force, to be headed by the FBI, to investigate the
slaying of James Byrd Jr. Three white men are accused of beating
and dragging the black man to his death. By RICHARD STEWART and
T.J. MILLING.

   RACIAL-ATTACK-NET (Austin, Texas) _ What is being said by
various groups on the Internet about the alleged racial killing in
Jasper, Texas? By JOHN GONZALEZ.

   SOUTHERN-BAPTISTS (Salt Lake City) _ Southern Baptists end their
annual meeting with continuing criticism of the policies of the
nation's foremost Southern Baptist public official _ President
Clinton. By RICHARD VARA. (Already filed)

   ATTENDANT-HARASS (Conroe, Texas) _ A former flight attendant,
who claimed she was sexually harassed by a Continental Airlines
pilot who used a computer to superimpose her face on the bodies of
bikini-clad and nude women, is awarded about $375,000 by a
sympathetic jury. By PAUL McKAY.

   COMMENTARY (``k'' category)

   MEANS-COLUMN (Washington) _ If you still think the death penalty
is never morally justified, pay attention to the shocking murder in
Texas, in which three white men stand accused of dragging a black
man behind a truck to his death. This is the kind of horror that
cries out for the ultimate punishment. By MARIANNE MEANS. (Already
filed)

   SPORTS (``s'' category)

   BKN-NBAFINALS (Chicago) _ It could be the final game of Michael
Jordan's NBA career. And could there be a more perfect ending to
the Chicago Bulls' run that to wrap up their sixth NBA Championship
on their home court? By EDDIE SEFKO.

   SOC-WORLD-CUP (Bordeaux, France) _ In World Cup action, the
opening-round match between Italy and Chile ends 2-2. By JOHN P.
LOPEZ

   HKN-STANLEY (Detroit) _ The Detroit Red Wings hope to take a 2-0
lead over the Washington Capitals in Game 2 of the Stanley Cup
Finals. By NEIL HOHLFELD.

   BBN-ASTROS (Cincinnati) _ Riding a five-game winning streak and
holding a two-game lead in the NL Central race, the Houston Astros
are in the middle of a soft stretch of the schedule where their
next four opponents are all sub .500 teams. By JOSEPH DUARTE.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0289 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 19:58 ',
			header: '
A5373 &Cx1f; taf-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ISRAEL-SOYINKA-NYT &LR;      06-11 0855
',
			slug: ' BC-ISRAEL-SOYINKA-NYT ',
			headline: '
NOBEL WINNER CALLS FOR NIGERIAN RULER TO RELEASE POLITICAL
PRISONERS
',
			trailer: '
   JERUSALEM _ His greatest fear, said Wole Soyinka, the Nigerian
Nobel laureate and ardent foe of military rule, is that with the
death of one tyrant, the world will not press for the entire junta
to step aside.

   ``The danger is that the international community will make the
same mistake it has made over and over again, saying that this
change `augurs well,' that it `has certain possibilities,'''
Soyinka said on his way to the airport after a visit to Israel.

   The successor to Gen. Sani Abacha as head of the government,
Gen. Abdusalam Abubakar, simply appears to be trying to keep the
junta in power, he said. ``I know with certainty that the military
council will carve up power among themselves,'' Soyinka said.
``They are several petty tyrants, of whom this man is only the
effective head.''

   The only route, he said, was for the military to release
political prisoners and open talks with the opposition, most of
whose members were in prison or in exile.

   ``It is obviously a critical moment, but only because it offers
the military an opportunity to disassociate themselves from events
of the past years, and take the kind of action which has not been
taken since they annulled the elections of June 1993,'' Soyinka
said. The anniversary of the elections, on Friday, will serve as
the occasion for demonstrations and perhaps a showdown with the
government. ``Unfortunately,'' Soyinka said, ``I feel what the
military council wants to do is to buy time to resume in some form
or another their control over the political destiny of the
nation.''

   ``Nothing effectively has changed in terms of the restoration of
power to the people of Nigeria, and this is the bottom line,''
Soyinka, who is a moral voice for the dissident movement, said.

   The writer, winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1986 and
formally, at least, an exile from his native country since December
1994 _ formally, he said, because he has managed to sneak in and
out at times _ was at Hebrew University here reading a lecture when
he learned that Abacha, head of Nigeria's military government, had
died.

   ``I had just finished my usual analysis of the evils of Abacha's
regime,'' Soyinka said with a chuckle, ``when somebody came at the
reception and asked for a comment about Abacha's death.''

   Soyinka was interviewed on his way to the airport for a flight
to London, where he planned to meet other members of the exile
opposition. He said about 500 active members lived abroad, and at
least 300 other opponents of the regime were in Nigerian prisons.
Soyinka himself spent nearly two years in Nigerian prisons,
producing a body of poems. He was charged in absentia with treason
last March.

   ``Our program is to strengthen all structures, all structures of
opposition, to make sure we're not caught with our pants down,'' he
said.

   Soyinka said the ``most rational direction'' for the military
leaders would be to place the apparent winner of the 1993 election,
Chief Moshood Abiola, at the head of a government of national unity
and to hold elections to a new national assembly.

   The 1993 elections were annulled by the military, evidently
because of their unhappiness at the election of Abiola, who would
have become head of a civilian government. He was later jailed for
proclaiming himself president.

   Before his death, Abacha was preparing for elections this summer
and a government transition Oct. 1, but the process was broadly
denounced as a ploy to keep him in power. So far, Soyinka said,
Abubakar has spoken only of continuing that process.

   ``For this man to speak of carrying out the electoral program of
Abacha is nothing but a long-winded strategy to perpetuate himself
in power,'' Soyinka said. ``That program was dead, dead, dead from
the moment it was conceived, deader than Abacha is dead.

   ``In addition to what was stolen, Abacha wasted public funds for
this ridiculous, nonfunctional constitutional assembly, which was
supposed to produce a Constitution, which is unnecessary, because
Nigeria has a Constitution. It's not a democratic process by any
stretch of the imagination.''

   ``So what does Abubakar mean that he will complete Abacha's
program? Nothing has been said about political prisoners. All
prisoners should have been freed instantly, but this man obviously
wants to continue holding them as a bargaining chip,'' Soyinka
continued, his voice rising. ``I regret to say that a chance has
been missed for them to retire gracefully to the barracks.''

   For now, Soyinka said, there was no thought among the
expatriates of returning to Nigeria.

   ``I find this man's call for exiles to return absolutely
ridiculous,'' he said. ``He knows what to do to talk to the
opposition. It's premature for us to send representatives to
discuss the situation. The first condition is to release all
political prisoners. If he wants dialogue, it has to be with the
president-elect, who is still in prison.''
',
			body: '


   (ja) 
 By SERGE SCHMEMANN    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   JERUSALEM _ His greatest fear, said Wole Soyinka, the Nigerian
Nobel laureate and ardent foe of military rule, is that with the
death of one tyrant, the world will not press for the entire junta
to step aside.

   ``The danger is that the international community will make the
same mistake it has made over and over again, saying that this
change `augurs well,' that it `has certain possibilities,'''
Soyinka said on his way to the airport after a visit to Israel.

   The successor to Gen. Sani Abacha as head of the government,
Gen. Abdusalam Abubakar, simply appears to be trying to keep the
junta in power, he said. ``I know with certainty that the military
council will carve up power among themselves,'' Soyinka said.
``They are several petty tyrants, of whom this man is only the
effective head.''

   The only route, he said, was for the military to release
political prisoners and open talks with the opposition, most of
whose members were in prison or in exile.

   ``It is obviously a critical moment, but only because it offers
the military an opportunity to disassociate themselves from events
of the past years, and take the kind of action which has not been
taken since they annulled the elections of June 1993,'' Soyinka
said. The anniversary of the elections, on Friday, will serve as
the occasion for demonstrations and perhaps a showdown with the
government. ``Unfortunately,'' Soyinka said, ``I feel what the
military council wants to do is to buy time to resume in some form
or another their control over the political destiny of the
nation.''

   ``Nothing effectively has changed in terms of the restoration of
power to the people of Nigeria, and this is the bottom line,''
Soyinka, who is a moral voice for the dissident movement, said.

   The writer, winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1986 and
formally, at least, an exile from his native country since December
1994 _ formally, he said, because he has managed to sneak in and
out at times _ was at Hebrew University here reading a lecture when
he learned that Abacha, head of Nigeria's military government, had
died.

   ``I had just finished my usual analysis of the evils of Abacha's
regime,'' Soyinka said with a chuckle, ``when somebody came at the
reception and asked for a comment about Abacha's death.''

   Soyinka was interviewed on his way to the airport for a flight
to London, where he planned to meet other members of the exile
opposition. He said about 500 active members lived abroad, and at
least 300 other opponents of the regime were in Nigerian prisons.
Soyinka himself spent nearly two years in Nigerian prisons,
producing a body of poems. He was charged in absentia with treason
last March.

   ``Our program is to strengthen all structures, all structures of
opposition, to make sure we're not caught with our pants down,'' he
said.

   Soyinka said the ``most rational direction'' for the military
leaders would be to place the apparent winner of the 1993 election,
Chief Moshood Abiola, at the head of a government of national unity
and to hold elections to a new national assembly.

   The 1993 elections were annulled by the military, evidently
because of their unhappiness at the election of Abiola, who would
have become head of a civilian government. He was later jailed for
proclaiming himself president.

   Before his death, Abacha was preparing for elections this summer
and a government transition Oct. 1, but the process was broadly
denounced as a ploy to keep him in power. So far, Soyinka said,
Abubakar has spoken only of continuing that process.

   ``For this man to speak of carrying out the electoral program of
Abacha is nothing but a long-winded strategy to perpetuate himself
in power,'' Soyinka said. ``That program was dead, dead, dead from
the moment it was conceived, deader than Abacha is dead.

   ``In addition to what was stolen, Abacha wasted public funds for
this ridiculous, nonfunctional constitutional assembly, which was
supposed to produce a Constitution, which is unnecessary, because
Nigeria has a Constitution. It's not a democratic process by any
stretch of the imagination.''

   ``So what does Abubakar mean that he will complete Abacha's
program? Nothing has been said about political prisoners. All
prisoners should have been freed instantly, but this man obviously
wants to continue holding them as a bargaining chip,'' Soyinka
continued, his voice rising. ``I regret to say that a chance has
been missed for them to retire gracefully to the barracks.''

   For now, Soyinka said, there was no thought among the
expatriates of returning to Nigeria.

   ``I find this man's call for exiles to return absolutely
ridiculous,'' he said. ``He knows what to do to talk to the
opposition. It's premature for us to send representatives to
discuss the situation. The first condition is to release all
political prisoners. If he wants dialogue, it has to be with the
president-elect, who is still in prison.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0290 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:00 ',
			header: '
A5374 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BAPTISTS-DOBSON-ART-N     06-11 1253
',
			slug: ' BC-BAPTISTS-DOBSON-ART-NYT ',
			headline: '
BAPTISTS END MEETING ON EVANGELISM AND GENDER ROLES 
',
			trailer: '
   SALT LAKE CITY _ On the final morning of the Southern Baptist
Convention, music evangelist Gary Tarver asked those in attendance
to stand. ``Let's sing the Baptist national anthem. `Victory in
Jesus,''' he said.

   The moment captured the triumphalist spirit of this year's
meeting, which was notable for its insistence that evangelical
Christianity is the only true religion, and for its declarations
about the role of men and women that hearken back to an earlier era
and stand as both a rejection of three decades of feminist gains
and an assertion that traditional gender roles conform to biblical
requirements.

   The 8,500 representatives from Southern Baptist churches in 36
states were encouraged in those stands by James Dobson, president
and founder of Focus on the Family, an independent evangelical
organization based in Colorado Springs, Colo.

   Dobson gave the convention's keynote address Thursday and
received a standing ovation from the Southern Baptists. His books
and daily radio program on child-rearing and family issues are
popular among evangelical Christians.

   In a 40-minute speech interrupted several times by applause, the
former professor of pediatric psychology said that society is
divided into two broad camps, those who believe God exists and
``postmodernists'' _ those who believe he doesn't. ``Those two
world views are colliding, and in my view, the postmodern
perspective is winning the culture,'' Dobson said.

   Dobson, 62, gave several familiar examples of problems in
society, such as violence, gambling and pornography, and urged
evangelical Christians to have the courage to speak out on those
and other issues.

   ``Too many churches have responded with apathy and accommodation
to the evils of the culture,'' he said. Referring to President
Clinton's veto two years ago of a bill outlawing some forms of
late-term abortion, Dobson said, ``There should have been a million
phone calls and 150,000 people walking the streets. The church has
been AWOL.''

   He praised the convention for resolutions it has passed,
including the boycott of Disney Co. last year and two statements
adopted this year. One, on the family, said that a husband is the
leader and protector of the family and that a wife should
``graciously submit herself to the servant leadership of her
husband.''

   That statement has attracted national attention as a description
of gender roles and the family that is out of step with modern
realities. Dobson teased the audience _ ``you haters of women,
you'' _ and went on to defend the statement.

   ``Thank you for your definition of the family and for taking
scripture at face value. If it says it, we believe it,'' Dobson
said, to roars of approval from the audience.

   Another resolution that Dobson praised, and that was adopted
Thursday, condemned an executive order by Clinton prohibiting
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in the federal
civilian work force. An amendment was offered to strengthen that
resolution by calling on Clinton's home church, a Southern Baptist
congregation in Little Rock, Ark., to consider disciplinary action
against him. The amendment was narrowly defeated, 52 percent to 48
percent.

   It had been rumored that Dobson would use his speech to make a
political statement, in light of recent disputes between him and
Republican leaders in Congress. Dobson recently threatened to
withdraw his support for Republican candidates because of what
Dobson has said is lukewarm support for legislation favorable to
evangelical positions.

   Dobson, however, stuck to moral and religious themes and merely
urged evangelicals to express their views as voting citizens. ``The
church should not be endorsing political candidates or involved in
political parties,'' he said. ``But church leaders should be using
their influence to defend righteousness in the culture.''

   It was the first time Dobson, a member of the Church of the
Nazarene, had addressed the convention, although his organization
has been in broad agreement with the positions of Southern Baptists
in recent years. In a further gesture of cooperation with the
convention, Dobson will meet with Southern Baptist evangelists and
North American Mission Board President Bob Reccord later this
summer to discuss key issues that families face.

   A major issue at this convention was evangelization, spreading
what one official measure called ``the one true gospel'' in an area
dominated by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Southern Baptist leaders have consistently referred to the Mormon
faith as ``counterfeit'' Christianity.

   The final results of Crossover Salt Lake, an evangelistic
campaign conducted here over the past week, showed that more than
1,200 people made professions of faith. According to Phil Roberts,
director of interfaith witness for the North American Mission
Board, most of those were not Mormons but people unaffiliated with
any church.

   Officially, relations between Mormon and Southern Baptist
leaders have been polite, although there were tensions in some
encounters between volunteer evangelists and local Mormons.

   In another action related to the role of women, the convention
adopted a resolution Thursday opposing ``the training and assigning
of females to military combat service.'' Approved without debate,
the resolution states:

   _ ``God created male and female with specific and complementary
characteristics.''

   _ ``The essence of military combat is to use force against an
enemy in order to kill, damage or destroy _ a purpose and essence
aligned with the male role but opposed to the female role.''

   _ Allowing women in combat is ``a foolish social experiment that
threatens good military order ... exposes female warriors taken as
POWs to the special trauma of rape ... and risks the nation's
military security.''

   The convention also adopted a resolution Thursday calling on
Congress to stop funding ``anti-Christian bigotry'' through the
National Endowment for the Arts and the Public Broadcasting
Service. It adopted a resolution endorsing statutes that permit
couples to voluntarily enter into a ``covenant marriage'' that
requires counseling before being married and makes it more
difficult to get a divorce.

   The Southern Baptist Convention is scheduled to meet next year
in Atlanta and the following year in Orlando, Fla., although a
motion was made by the Rev. Wiley Drake, a pastor from Buena Park,
Calif., to move the 2000 meeting from Orlando to New York City,
``in light of the Disney boycott.''

   Messengers referred the motion to the convention's Executive
Committee for study. Herb Hollinger, vice president for convention
news, said it was unlikely the committee would change the location,
since contracts have already been signed and the convention would
have to pay substantial penalties for breaking them.

   The Southern Baptist Convention ranks as the largest Protestant
church in the United States, claiming about 15.9 million members in
40,887 churches.

   &UR; (Cary McMullen writes for The Ledger in Lakeland, Fla. This
story was distributed by The N.Y. Times News Service.) &LR;
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: Utah, Ark., Ga., Fla.)  (ART ADV: Photo is being sent to NYT photo clients. Non-subscribers
can make individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(lb) 
 By CARY McMULLEN  
 NYT Regional Newspapers   c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   SALT LAKE CITY _ On the final morning of the Southern Baptist
Convention, music evangelist Gary Tarver asked those in attendance
to stand. ``Let's sing the Baptist national anthem. `Victory in
Jesus,''' he said.

   The moment captured the triumphalist spirit of this year's
meeting, which was notable for its insistence that evangelical
Christianity is the only true religion, and for its declarations
about the role of men and women that hearken back to an earlier era
and stand as both a rejection of three decades of feminist gains
and an assertion that traditional gender roles conform to biblical
requirements.

   The 8,500 representatives from Southern Baptist churches in 36
states were encouraged in those stands by James Dobson, president
and founder of Focus on the Family, an independent evangelical
organization based in Colorado Springs, Colo.

   Dobson gave the convention's keynote address Thursday and
received a standing ovation from the Southern Baptists. His books
and daily radio program on child-rearing and family issues are
popular among evangelical Christians.

   In a 40-minute speech interrupted several times by applause, the
former professor of pediatric psychology said that society is
divided into two broad camps, those who believe God exists and
``postmodernists'' _ those who believe he doesn't. ``Those two
world views are colliding, and in my view, the postmodern
perspective is winning the culture,'' Dobson said.

   Dobson, 62, gave several familiar examples of problems in
society, such as violence, gambling and pornography, and urged
evangelical Christians to have the courage to speak out on those
and other issues.

   ``Too many churches have responded with apathy and accommodation
to the evils of the culture,'' he said. Referring to President
Clinton's veto two years ago of a bill outlawing some forms of
late-term abortion, Dobson said, ``There should have been a million
phone calls and 150,000 people walking the streets. The church has
been AWOL.''

   He praised the convention for resolutions it has passed,
including the boycott of Disney Co. last year and two statements
adopted this year. One, on the family, said that a husband is the
leader and protector of the family and that a wife should
``graciously submit herself to the servant leadership of her
husband.''

   That statement has attracted national attention as a description
of gender roles and the family that is out of step with modern
realities. Dobson teased the audience _ ``you haters of women,
you'' _ and went on to defend the statement.

   ``Thank you for your definition of the family and for taking
scripture at face value. If it says it, we believe it,'' Dobson
said, to roars of approval from the audience.

   Another resolution that Dobson praised, and that was adopted
Thursday, condemned an executive order by Clinton prohibiting
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in the federal
civilian work force. An amendment was offered to strengthen that
resolution by calling on Clinton's home church, a Southern Baptist
congregation in Little Rock, Ark., to consider disciplinary action
against him. The amendment was narrowly defeated, 52 percent to 48
percent.

   It had been rumored that Dobson would use his speech to make a
political statement, in light of recent disputes between him and
Republican leaders in Congress. Dobson recently threatened to
withdraw his support for Republican candidates because of what
Dobson has said is lukewarm support for legislation favorable to
evangelical positions.

   Dobson, however, stuck to moral and religious themes and merely
urged evangelicals to express their views as voting citizens. ``The
church should not be endorsing political candidates or involved in
political parties,'' he said. ``But church leaders should be using
their influence to defend righteousness in the culture.''

   It was the first time Dobson, a member of the Church of the
Nazarene, had addressed the convention, although his organization
has been in broad agreement with the positions of Southern Baptists
in recent years. In a further gesture of cooperation with the
convention, Dobson will meet with Southern Baptist evangelists and
North American Mission Board President Bob Reccord later this
summer to discuss key issues that families face.

   A major issue at this convention was evangelization, spreading
what one official measure called ``the one true gospel'' in an area
dominated by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Southern Baptist leaders have consistently referred to the Mormon
faith as ``counterfeit'' Christianity.

   The final results of Crossover Salt Lake, an evangelistic
campaign conducted here over the past week, showed that more than
1,200 people made professions of faith. According to Phil Roberts,
director of interfaith witness for the North American Mission
Board, most of those were not Mormons but people unaffiliated with
any church.

   Officially, relations between Mormon and Southern Baptist
leaders have been polite, although there were tensions in some
encounters between volunteer evangelists and local Mormons.

   In another action related to the role of women, the convention
adopted a resolution Thursday opposing ``the training and assigning
of females to military combat service.'' Approved without debate,
the resolution states:

   _ ``God created male and female with specific and complementary
characteristics.''

   _ ``The essence of military combat is to use force against an
enemy in order to kill, damage or destroy _ a purpose and essence
aligned with the male role but opposed to the female role.''

   _ Allowing women in combat is ``a foolish social experiment that
threatens good military order ... exposes female warriors taken as
POWs to the special trauma of rape ... and risks the nation's
military security.''

   The convention also adopted a resolution Thursday calling on
Congress to stop funding ``anti-Christian bigotry'' through the
National Endowment for the Arts and the Public Broadcasting
Service. It adopted a resolution endorsing statutes that permit
couples to voluntarily enter into a ``covenant marriage'' that
requires counseling before being married and makes it more
difficult to get a divorce.

   The Southern Baptist Convention is scheduled to meet next year
in Atlanta and the following year in Orlando, Fla., although a
motion was made by the Rev. Wiley Drake, a pastor from Buena Park,
Calif., to move the 2000 meeting from Orlando to New York City,
``in light of the Disney boycott.''

   Messengers referred the motion to the convention's Executive
Committee for study. Herb Hollinger, vice president for convention
news, said it was unlikely the committee would change the location,
since contracts have already been signed and the convention would
have to pay substantial penalties for breaking them.

   The Southern Baptist Convention ranks as the largest Protestant
church in the United States, claiming about 15.9 million members in
40,887 churches.

   &UR; (Cary McMullen writes for The Ledger in Lakeland, Fla. This
story was distributed by The N.Y. Times News Service.) &LR;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0291 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:01 ',
			header: '
A5375 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-LADN-SPORTS--BUDGET &LR;      06-11 0257
',
			slug: ' BC-LADN-SPORTS--BUDGET ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &QL; 
GEN-CSUN (Los Angeles) _ Second of a two-day package. A look at the
future of Cal State Northridge athletics. &QL; 
By Rizza Yap. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
BBN-KARROS (Los Angeles) _ Profile of first baseman Eric Karros,
who is adjusting to his new role on the team. &QL; 
By Matt McHale. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
BBN-DODGERS-NOTES (Los Angeles) _ Off-day Dodgers notebook. &QL; 
By Matt McHale. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
GEN-HOFFARTH-COLUMN (Los Angeles) _ Weekly media column. &QL; 
By Tom Hoffarth. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
BKC-USC (Los Angeles) _ The Pac-10 Conference has found no evidence
that USC basketball recruit Sam Clancy received illegal cash
payments and concluded its probe into the matter. &QL; 
By Scott Wolf. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
RAC-MODESTI-COLUMN (Los Angeles) _ Weekly horse racing column. &QL; 
By Kevin Modesti. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
BOX-DELAHOYA (Los Angeles) _ A look at Saturday's Oscar De La
Hoya-Patrick Charpentier fight in El Paso, Texas. &QL; 
By Michael Rosenthal. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
CAR-SCHLOTTER-COLUMN (Los Angeles) _ Weekly motor sports column. &QL; 
By Bill Schlotter. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.) &QL;
',
			body: '

  
The Los Angeles Daily News plans to move the following sports
stories for use by NYTimes News Service clients, AMs and PMs of
June 12 and thereafter. For questions about stories, resends or
inquiries, call Brad Nelson at the Daily News, (818) 713-3602.

',
			paragraphs: '
   &QL; 
GEN-CSUN (Los Angeles) _ Second of a two-day package. A look at the
future of Cal State Northridge athletics. &QL; 
By Rizza Yap. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
BBN-KARROS (Los Angeles) _ Profile of first baseman Eric Karros,
who is adjusting to his new role on the team. &QL; 
By Matt McHale. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
BBN-DODGERS-NOTES (Los Angeles) _ Off-day Dodgers notebook. &QL; 
By Matt McHale. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
GEN-HOFFARTH-COLUMN (Los Angeles) _ Weekly media column. &QL; 
By Tom Hoffarth. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
BKC-USC (Los Angeles) _ The Pac-10 Conference has found no evidence
that USC basketball recruit Sam Clancy received illegal cash
payments and concluded its probe into the matter. &QL; 
By Scott Wolf. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
RAC-MODESTI-COLUMN (Los Angeles) _ Weekly horse racing column. &QL; 
By Kevin Modesti. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
BOX-DELAHOYA (Los Angeles) _ A look at Saturday's Oscar De La
Hoya-Patrick Charpentier fight in El Paso, Texas. &QL; 
By Michael Rosenthal. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.)

   &QL; 
CAR-SCHLOTTER-COLUMN (Los Angeles) _ Weekly motor sports column. &QL; 
By Bill Schlotter. (Will move on the ``s'' sports file.) &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0292 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:01 ',
			header: '
A5376 &Cx1f; taf-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ETHIOPIA-ERITREA-ART-     06-11 1118
',
			slug: ' BC-ETHIOPIA-ERITREA-ART-NYT ',
			headline: '
ANALYSIS: PUZZLING CONFLICT IS ROOTED IN ETHNIC TIES
',
			trailer: '
   NAIROBI, Kenya _ The undeclared war between Eritrea and Ethiopia
is a bewildering study in contradictions. It is a war that both
heads of state maintain they do not want, set off by a minor land
dispute both sides agree could easily be settled by historians and
cartographical experts.

   Yet neither Prime Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia nor
President Isaias Afewerki of Eritrea appears able to stop the
bloodshed.

   With each passing day, the battle has widened, and the attempts
by the United States and several African leaders to head off a
full-scale conflict have so far been drowned out by heavy artillery
exchanges, tank battles and bombing raids.

   What is even more puzzling is that both countries have portrayed
themselves as the passive victims of an aggressive neighbor bent on
grabbing land militarily. The two heads of state have blamed each
other for starting each of the clashes over the last week,
including tit-for-tat bombing. Each has accused the other of trying
to seize territory while covering up naked aggression with
propaganda.

   Thursday morning fresh fighting broke out on a third front on
the border, near the Red Sea port of Assab, a frontier that has
never been disputed, officials from both sides said. Assab is a
strategically important port with a major oil refinery.

   On Wednesday the two armies locked in battle over a hill called
Erde Mattios in the Badame region, after Eritrean troops with tanks
attacked an Ethiopian military post, officials said. The battle was
continuing Thursday.

   These new fronts follow two days of heavy fighting around Zala
Ambessa, a border town that, paradoxically, is not part of the
disputed region but has nevertheless been the focus of fierce tank
and artillery battles for a week, with Eritrean troops pushing a
good 20 miles into Ethiopia after repulsing attacks.

   At the heart of the dispute are several pieces of land inside
what Eritrea considers its national boundaries that once belonged
to the Ethiopian administrative province of Tigre before Eritrea
became independent in 1993. Eritrea maintains that local Tigrean
officials have been trying to colonize these areas over the last
year, sending in thousands of Ethiopian settlers over the border,
pushing Eritrean inhabitants out and setting up administrations. In
early May thousands of Eritrean troops moved into one of these
border towns, Badame, after a clash between a Eritrean patrol and
Ethiopian police set off the current crisis.

   For its part, Ethiopia denies that these regions ever belonged
to Eritrea and has accused Eritrean troops of occupying its
territory around Badame illegally since early May. They have
refused to negotiate until Eritrea withdraws its forces.

   ``Before we sit in any kind of negotiations, Afewerki has to
withdraw,'' a spokeswoman for the Ethiopian government, Selome
Tadesse, said on Wednesday. ``Why should Meles be expected to
negotiate when he's under occupation?''

   Last week both sides accepted in principle the outlines of a
four-point peace proposal made by the United States and Rwanda. But
the Eritreans have balked at the first step of the plan, which
calls for their troops to pull back to positions they held before
May 6.

   Still, both sides seem to agree on the other American proposals
to demilitarize the border, to put a small observer mission from a
third country in Badame and to ask for a technical team, perhaps
from the United Nations, to demarcate the frontier once and for
all.

   ``It's a very simple thing,'' Afewerki said in an interview with
the BBC on Tuesday. ``We need to agree on the demarcation of the
border line, which is a very simple thing which could be done by
any technical team or body. We believe that for that to happen we
need to demilitarize the areas of tension, which would also be done
with the involvement of observers.''

   The Organization of African Unity has signed on to the
U.S.-Rwandan peace plan, urging both sides to accept it. Egypt has
offered to mediate the dispute. There seems to be no shortage of
countries willing to lend a hand with troops or observers.

   On Sunday President Clinton called both leaders, urging them to
``de-escalate the tension,'' American officials said. His words
should have carried weight, given that both countries are close
allies of the United States who have received American military
training and assistance.

   Why then is the fighting continuing? In many ways, this border
war is a family dispute. Once considered close allies and friends,
Meles and Afewerki are both from the Tigre ethnic group, which
straddles the border of the former Italian colony of Eritrea and
the Ethiopian province of Tigre.

   Both men headed rebel movements that drew their core fighters
from the Tigre and fought side by side for years to oust the former
Marxist dictator, Mengistu Haile Mariam, who went into exile in
1991.

   In 1993 Meles agreed to Eritrean demands for a referendum on
independence, a political decision that left Ethiopia landlocked
but repaid Afewerki and his supporters for their support during the
civil war. The two governments never signed an agreement on a
common border, though.

   The trouble has arisen because some hard-liners in Meles'
movement, the Tigre People's Liberation Army, have a vision of a
greater Tigre that includes some lands in what Eritrea considers
its territory, diplomats said.

   The first problems arose in August 1997, when Ethiopian
officials set up an administration in a region known as Bada,
Eritrean officials say. Several skirmishes followed, and a joint
commission was set up to hammer out a border pact.

   But the situation degenerated rapidly in early May, when an
Eritrean general, Gerzgiher Tesfamariam, made the decision to
respond with huge force to the skirmish at Badame on May 6, in
which an Eritrean officer was killed.

   That decision put Meles, whose mother is Eritrean, in a delicate
political position. Having allowed Eritrea to go its own way, the
prime minister was already vulnerable to accusations from southern
politicians that he is too soft on Ethiopia's northern neighbor. To
these constituents, he has had to prove he has Ethiopia's interests
at heart, diplomats say.

   At the same time, Meles' hard-line supporters in Tigre are
pressing demands that he restore what they consider to be
traditional Tigrean lands.
',
			body: '


   (ART ADV: Graphic is being made available to NYT graphic clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or -1927.) 
(ja) 
 By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NAIROBI, Kenya _ The undeclared war between Eritrea and Ethiopia
is a bewildering study in contradictions. It is a war that both
heads of state maintain they do not want, set off by a minor land
dispute both sides agree could easily be settled by historians and
cartographical experts.

   Yet neither Prime Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia nor
President Isaias Afewerki of Eritrea appears able to stop the
bloodshed.

   With each passing day, the battle has widened, and the attempts
by the United States and several African leaders to head off a
full-scale conflict have so far been drowned out by heavy artillery
exchanges, tank battles and bombing raids.

   What is even more puzzling is that both countries have portrayed
themselves as the passive victims of an aggressive neighbor bent on
grabbing land militarily. The two heads of state have blamed each
other for starting each of the clashes over the last week,
including tit-for-tat bombing. Each has accused the other of trying
to seize territory while covering up naked aggression with
propaganda.

   Thursday morning fresh fighting broke out on a third front on
the border, near the Red Sea port of Assab, a frontier that has
never been disputed, officials from both sides said. Assab is a
strategically important port with a major oil refinery.

   On Wednesday the two armies locked in battle over a hill called
Erde Mattios in the Badame region, after Eritrean troops with tanks
attacked an Ethiopian military post, officials said. The battle was
continuing Thursday.

   These new fronts follow two days of heavy fighting around Zala
Ambessa, a border town that, paradoxically, is not part of the
disputed region but has nevertheless been the focus of fierce tank
and artillery battles for a week, with Eritrean troops pushing a
good 20 miles into Ethiopia after repulsing attacks.

   At the heart of the dispute are several pieces of land inside
what Eritrea considers its national boundaries that once belonged
to the Ethiopian administrative province of Tigre before Eritrea
became independent in 1993. Eritrea maintains that local Tigrean
officials have been trying to colonize these areas over the last
year, sending in thousands of Ethiopian settlers over the border,
pushing Eritrean inhabitants out and setting up administrations. In
early May thousands of Eritrean troops moved into one of these
border towns, Badame, after a clash between a Eritrean patrol and
Ethiopian police set off the current crisis.

   For its part, Ethiopia denies that these regions ever belonged
to Eritrea and has accused Eritrean troops of occupying its
territory around Badame illegally since early May. They have
refused to negotiate until Eritrea withdraws its forces.

   ``Before we sit in any kind of negotiations, Afewerki has to
withdraw,'' a spokeswoman for the Ethiopian government, Selome
Tadesse, said on Wednesday. ``Why should Meles be expected to
negotiate when he's under occupation?''

   Last week both sides accepted in principle the outlines of a
four-point peace proposal made by the United States and Rwanda. But
the Eritreans have balked at the first step of the plan, which
calls for their troops to pull back to positions they held before
May 6.

   Still, both sides seem to agree on the other American proposals
to demilitarize the border, to put a small observer mission from a
third country in Badame and to ask for a technical team, perhaps
from the United Nations, to demarcate the frontier once and for
all.

   ``It's a very simple thing,'' Afewerki said in an interview with
the BBC on Tuesday. ``We need to agree on the demarcation of the
border line, which is a very simple thing which could be done by
any technical team or body. We believe that for that to happen we
need to demilitarize the areas of tension, which would also be done
with the involvement of observers.''

   The Organization of African Unity has signed on to the
U.S.-Rwandan peace plan, urging both sides to accept it. Egypt has
offered to mediate the dispute. There seems to be no shortage of
countries willing to lend a hand with troops or observers.

   On Sunday President Clinton called both leaders, urging them to
``de-escalate the tension,'' American officials said. His words
should have carried weight, given that both countries are close
allies of the United States who have received American military
training and assistance.

   Why then is the fighting continuing? In many ways, this border
war is a family dispute. Once considered close allies and friends,
Meles and Afewerki are both from the Tigre ethnic group, which
straddles the border of the former Italian colony of Eritrea and
the Ethiopian province of Tigre.

   Both men headed rebel movements that drew their core fighters
from the Tigre and fought side by side for years to oust the former
Marxist dictator, Mengistu Haile Mariam, who went into exile in
1991.

   In 1993 Meles agreed to Eritrean demands for a referendum on
independence, a political decision that left Ethiopia landlocked
but repaid Afewerki and his supporters for their support during the
civil war. The two governments never signed an agreement on a
common border, though.

   The trouble has arisen because some hard-liners in Meles'
movement, the Tigre People's Liberation Army, have a vision of a
greater Tigre that includes some lands in what Eritrea considers
its territory, diplomats said.

   The first problems arose in August 1997, when Ethiopian
officials set up an administration in a region known as Bada,
Eritrean officials say. Several skirmishes followed, and a joint
commission was set up to hammer out a border pact.

   But the situation degenerated rapidly in early May, when an
Eritrean general, Gerzgiher Tesfamariam, made the decision to
respond with huge force to the skirmish at Badame on May 6, in
which an Eritrean officer was killed.

   That decision put Meles, whose mother is Eritrean, in a delicate
political position. Having allowed Eritrea to go its own way, the
prime minister was already vulnerable to accusations from southern
politicians that he is too soft on Ethiopia's northern neighbor. To
these constituents, he has had to prove he has Ethiopia's interests
at heart, diplomats say.

   At the same time, Meles' hard-line supporters in Tigre are
pressing demands that he restore what they consider to be
traditional Tigrean lands.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0293 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:04 ',
			header: '
A5377 &Cx1f; taf-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-AFGHAN-FOOD-NYT &LR;      06-11 0377
',
			slug: ' BC-AFGHAN-FOOD-NYT ',
			headline: '
TALIBAN TO ALLOW U.N. FOOD CONVOY TO CENTRAL AFGHAN COMBAT ZONE
',
			trailer: '
   UNITED NATIONS _ The Taliban government in Afghanistan has
allowed a critical shipment of food to be made to a front-line
region cut off from supplies and facing shortages for nearly a
year, the U.N. World Food Program said Thursday.

   The shipment of 1,000 tons of food will go to about 200,000
people in the Hazarajat area and Ghorbund Valley of central
Afghanistan, where fighting is going on mostly between the Taliban
and a locally based Shiite Muslim army, the Hezb-e-Wahdat, which
the Taliban says is being armed by Iran. Relief organizations had
begun receiving reports of starvation in Hazarajat.

   Taliban officials had barred aid from the region because of
fears that the bulk of it would be diverted to enemy troops. In an
attempt to assuage these fears, the World Food Program organized a
complex logistical plan to bring trucks to the front line, from
where they were escorted by one or the other of the opposing armies
into territories under their control.

   Food aid continues to be blocked from northern areas of
Afghanistan controlled by the Northern Alliance, a group of armies
of the former Mujahedeen, whom the Taliban drove out of Kabul in
September 1996. The World Food Program says food stocks are still
confined to warehouses in Uzbekistan, awaiting assurances that they
can be delivered safely. In the past, soldiers from the Northern
Alliance have commandeered U.N. vehicles and supplies.

   The Taliban, who are thought to control from 70 to 85 percent of
Afghanistan, have been quietly but steadily making concessions to
the United Nations, officials here say. On May 13, they made their
first written commitment to improve education for women and girls
and to allow U.N. agencies to employ women.

   Private organizations were not covered by the agreement, though,
and some report problems, officials say.

   ``We have made a lot of concessions,'' said Abdul Hakim Mujahid,
the Taliban's ambassador in Pakistan, one of a very few countries
to recognize the movement's government in Kabul. ``In the future
there will be no more problems with the U.N.''
',
			body: '


   (ja) 
 By BARBARA CROSSETTE    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   UNITED NATIONS _ The Taliban government in Afghanistan has
allowed a critical shipment of food to be made to a front-line
region cut off from supplies and facing shortages for nearly a
year, the U.N. World Food Program said Thursday.

   The shipment of 1,000 tons of food will go to about 200,000
people in the Hazarajat area and Ghorbund Valley of central
Afghanistan, where fighting is going on mostly between the Taliban
and a locally based Shiite Muslim army, the Hezb-e-Wahdat, which
the Taliban says is being armed by Iran. Relief organizations had
begun receiving reports of starvation in Hazarajat.

   Taliban officials had barred aid from the region because of
fears that the bulk of it would be diverted to enemy troops. In an
attempt to assuage these fears, the World Food Program organized a
complex logistical plan to bring trucks to the front line, from
where they were escorted by one or the other of the opposing armies
into territories under their control.

   Food aid continues to be blocked from northern areas of
Afghanistan controlled by the Northern Alliance, a group of armies
of the former Mujahedeen, whom the Taliban drove out of Kabul in
September 1996. The World Food Program says food stocks are still
confined to warehouses in Uzbekistan, awaiting assurances that they
can be delivered safely. In the past, soldiers from the Northern
Alliance have commandeered U.N. vehicles and supplies.

   The Taliban, who are thought to control from 70 to 85 percent of
Afghanistan, have been quietly but steadily making concessions to
the United Nations, officials here say. On May 13, they made their
first written commitment to improve education for women and girls
and to allow U.N. agencies to employ women.

   Private organizations were not covered by the agreement, though,
and some report problems, officials say.

   ``We have made a lot of concessions,'' said Abdul Hakim Mujahid,
the Taliban's ambassador in Pakistan, one of a very few countries
to recognize the movement's government in Kabul. ``In the future
there will be no more problems with the U.N.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0294 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:12 ',
			header: '
A5386 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CLINTON-JONES-NYT &LR;      06-11 0984
',
			slug: ' BC-CLINTON-JONES-NYT ',
			headline: '
PAULA JONES' LAWYERS PLEADED WITH HER TO ACCEPT SETTLEMENT OF
LAWSUIT  
 (JT) 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Lawyers for Paula Jones pleaded with her last
summer not to reject a proposed settlement of her sexual misconduct
lawsuit against President Clinton, warning that she was risking
``devastation'' in pursuing a claim that would sully her
reputation, ultimately fail and ``snatch defeat from the jaws of
victory.''

   Mrs. Jones went ahead with the lawsuit after replacing the
lawyers, Gilbert Davis and Joseph Cammarata, whose advice, in a
letter on Aug. 19, was made public Thursday in a federal court in
Arkansas. They warned her that if she turned down an unofficial
proposal for a payment of $700,000 from Clinton, her motive would
seem to shift from defending her own reputation to proving that
``Clinton is a bad person.''

   In retrospect, the letter provides a study in the
might-have-beens of the sensational lawsuit, which, as Mrs. Jones
had been warned, was subsequently dismissed, but not before it
sparked the more explosive Lewinsky investigation into sex and
perjury charges that now haunts the president.

   Mrs. Jones' lawyers set out a variety of reasons why she should
accept the settlement, and the ``grim consequences'' if she
refused. They said it was highly unusual to achieve a judgment for
the amount sought, that it was more than she ``would ever be able
to attain'' at trial, and that it would be difficult'' to prove her
claim of lost job benefits. They argued that the money, along with
some vague but sympathetic settlement language, while not the
presidential apology she demanded, ``fully redeems your reputation
for character and truthfulness.''

   The lawyers added that by rejecting the settlement, ``you will
lose all prospect of financial reward from the selling of your
sealed affidavit.'' That was a reference to what they said was her
plan to market a vividly detailed account of the sexual
confrontation she claimed occurred with Clinton in a Little Rock
hotel room in 1991, when he was governor of Arkansas and she a
state employee.

   The president's lawyer, Robert Bennett, said this disclosure
clearly betrayed a motivation of tabloid sensationalism and greed
at the heart of the lawsuit. He noted Mrs. Jones' lawyers had
warned her about the waning ``shelf life'' of her charges once they
were put to the test of pretrial examination. He would not
otherwise discuss the matter.

   After weeks of salacious charges and leaks damaging to the
president, the lawsuit was dismissed on April 1. ``There are no
genuine issues for trial in this case,'' Judge Susan Webber Wright
ruled then in finding Mrs. Jones' charges unprovable and Clinton's
conduct, at worst, only ``boorish and offensive'' even if they
could be proven. In the lawsuit allegation, denied by the
president, Mrs. Jones accused Clinton of exposing himself and
proposing oral sex.

   In January, 10 weeks before Mrs. Jones' claims were thrown out
of court, the president had to submit to a sworn six-hour
deposition that surveyed allegations about his private life. He
denied charges of a consensual sexual liaison with Monica Lewinsky,
a White House intern, as she also did in a sworn affidavit. But
those statements occasioned a criminal investigation after Kenneth
Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel, was given furtive
tape-recordings in which Mrs. Lewinsky reportedly confirmed the
affair and said she had been told to deny it.

   The cautionary letters by Mrs. Jones' lawyers, made public as
part of their effort to secure fees of $800,000, also underlined a
weakness in the fact that Mrs. Jones had never demanded an apology
from Clinton until three years after the alleged confrontation,
when right-wing critics of the president succeeded in making a
public issue of her charge. ``You never wanted a written apology
before,'' the lawyers said, highlighting six different times in
bold print that she was demanding ``the apology that will never
happen.''

   The possibility of a settlement had been pursued unofficially by
various lawyers involved but foundered over the demand for a firm
apology before it was ever presented for final approval to Clinton,
who has never considered apologizing, White House officials
insisted at the time. The working language of the lawyers
stipulated that Mrs. Jones did not engage in any improper conduct
and that all parties, including the president, found
``regrettable'' any adverse effects on her character resulting from
an erroneous account of the allegation published in 1994 in the
American Spectator, an anti-Clinton polemical magazine.

   Mrs. Jones' initial lawyers wrote to her in a 17-page plea ``in
the strongest possible way'' that she accept the proposed
settlement. ``You are in the best posture now to increase your
financial gain from outside sources,'' they wrote, estimating she
could have netted $220,000 for herself from the settlement and
salvaged her reputation in the marketplace.

   ``Everybody wants to meet and watch a winner,'' the lawyers
declared in advising Mrs. Jones that pursuing the suit through the
rugged process of pre-trial discovery would fray her celebrity
value as a tell-all author.

   ``Our opponents may portray your refusal as a money-grubbing
attempt to further develop this story for profitable book rights,
and portray you as inspired and under the influence of right-wing
Clinton-haters,'' wrote Davis and Cammarata. As they prepared to
leave the suit, they added, ``We do not feel it is ethical for us
to pursue a claim solely to punish the defendants by tough
litigation when you have rejected the biggest victory to pursue a
much smaller one.''

   There was no immediate comment from Mrs. Jones' current lawyer,
Donovan Campbell Jr., who is trying to have the suit reinstated on
appeal.

   &QL;
',
			body: '


   By FRANCIS X. CLINES    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Lawyers for Paula Jones pleaded with her last
summer not to reject a proposed settlement of her sexual misconduct
lawsuit against President Clinton, warning that she was risking
``devastation'' in pursuing a claim that would sully her
reputation, ultimately fail and ``snatch defeat from the jaws of
victory.''

   Mrs. Jones went ahead with the lawsuit after replacing the
lawyers, Gilbert Davis and Joseph Cammarata, whose advice, in a
letter on Aug. 19, was made public Thursday in a federal court in
Arkansas. They warned her that if she turned down an unofficial
proposal for a payment of $700,000 from Clinton, her motive would
seem to shift from defending her own reputation to proving that
``Clinton is a bad person.''

   In retrospect, the letter provides a study in the
might-have-beens of the sensational lawsuit, which, as Mrs. Jones
had been warned, was subsequently dismissed, but not before it
sparked the more explosive Lewinsky investigation into sex and
perjury charges that now haunts the president.

   Mrs. Jones' lawyers set out a variety of reasons why she should
accept the settlement, and the ``grim consequences'' if she
refused. They said it was highly unusual to achieve a judgment for
the amount sought, that it was more than she ``would ever be able
to attain'' at trial, and that it would be difficult'' to prove her
claim of lost job benefits. They argued that the money, along with
some vague but sympathetic settlement language, while not the
presidential apology she demanded, ``fully redeems your reputation
for character and truthfulness.''

   The lawyers added that by rejecting the settlement, ``you will
lose all prospect of financial reward from the selling of your
sealed affidavit.'' That was a reference to what they said was her
plan to market a vividly detailed account of the sexual
confrontation she claimed occurred with Clinton in a Little Rock
hotel room in 1991, when he was governor of Arkansas and she a
state employee.

   The president's lawyer, Robert Bennett, said this disclosure
clearly betrayed a motivation of tabloid sensationalism and greed
at the heart of the lawsuit. He noted Mrs. Jones' lawyers had
warned her about the waning ``shelf life'' of her charges once they
were put to the test of pretrial examination. He would not
otherwise discuss the matter.

   After weeks of salacious charges and leaks damaging to the
president, the lawsuit was dismissed on April 1. ``There are no
genuine issues for trial in this case,'' Judge Susan Webber Wright
ruled then in finding Mrs. Jones' charges unprovable and Clinton's
conduct, at worst, only ``boorish and offensive'' even if they
could be proven. In the lawsuit allegation, denied by the
president, Mrs. Jones accused Clinton of exposing himself and
proposing oral sex.

   In January, 10 weeks before Mrs. Jones' claims were thrown out
of court, the president had to submit to a sworn six-hour
deposition that surveyed allegations about his private life. He
denied charges of a consensual sexual liaison with Monica Lewinsky,
a White House intern, as she also did in a sworn affidavit. But
those statements occasioned a criminal investigation after Kenneth
Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel, was given furtive
tape-recordings in which Mrs. Lewinsky reportedly confirmed the
affair and said she had been told to deny it.

   The cautionary letters by Mrs. Jones' lawyers, made public as
part of their effort to secure fees of $800,000, also underlined a
weakness in the fact that Mrs. Jones had never demanded an apology
from Clinton until three years after the alleged confrontation,
when right-wing critics of the president succeeded in making a
public issue of her charge. ``You never wanted a written apology
before,'' the lawyers said, highlighting six different times in
bold print that she was demanding ``the apology that will never
happen.''

   The possibility of a settlement had been pursued unofficially by
various lawyers involved but foundered over the demand for a firm
apology before it was ever presented for final approval to Clinton,
who has never considered apologizing, White House officials
insisted at the time. The working language of the lawyers
stipulated that Mrs. Jones did not engage in any improper conduct
and that all parties, including the president, found
``regrettable'' any adverse effects on her character resulting from
an erroneous account of the allegation published in 1994 in the
American Spectator, an anti-Clinton polemical magazine.

   Mrs. Jones' initial lawyers wrote to her in a 17-page plea ``in
the strongest possible way'' that she accept the proposed
settlement. ``You are in the best posture now to increase your
financial gain from outside sources,'' they wrote, estimating she
could have netted $220,000 for herself from the settlement and
salvaged her reputation in the marketplace.

   ``Everybody wants to meet and watch a winner,'' the lawyers
declared in advising Mrs. Jones that pursuing the suit through the
rugged process of pre-trial discovery would fray her celebrity
value as a tell-all author.

   ``Our opponents may portray your refusal as a money-grubbing
attempt to further develop this story for profitable book rights,
and portray you as inspired and under the influence of right-wing
Clinton-haters,'' wrote Davis and Cammarata. As they prepared to
leave the suit, they added, ``We do not feel it is ethical for us
to pursue a claim solely to punish the defendants by tough
litigation when you have rejected the biggest victory to pursue a
much smaller one.''

   There was no immediate comment from Mrs. Jones' current lawyer,
Donovan Campbell Jr., who is trying to have the suit reinstated on
appeal.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0295 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:14 ',
			header: '
A5388 &Cx1f; taf-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-POET-PADGETT-POET-     06-11 1082
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-POET-PADGETT-POET-NYT ',
			headline: '
A POET WHO DRAWS INSPIRATION FROM THE STREETS OF NEW YORK CITY 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ When the bus came over that final hill in New Jersey,
I got my first real-life glimpse of Manhattan stretched out
broadside like a futuristic battleship 11 miles long, and the surge
of excitement I felt at that moment 38 years ago has never quite
left me.

   Of course, everything looks good from a distance. And when I
reached my destination, Greenwich Village, I was met with a
Whelan's drugstore and a Howard Johnson's, at Sixth Avenue and
Eighth Street: not all that different from a busy intersection in
Tulsa, Okla., where I had just come from. Where were the thatched
cottages that my fanciful 18-year-old mind had imagined?

   My roller-coaster reactions were immediately propelled by the
pace of the streets of Manhattan, not to mention the thrill of
jaywalking. Soon, as Jack Kerouac put it, ``I did everything with
that great mad joy you get when you return to New York City.''

   The sheer energy of the streets was irresistible, a force that
made me want to go to the Museum of Modern Art, the Bleecker Street
Cinema, the Eighth Street Bookstore, Wall Street at midnight and a
thousand other places, all at the same time, and then go back to my
room and write a poem.

   Over the years, I've lost a step, but I still have to contain my
excitement when I go out into the street, because I know that out
there I will encounter an endless stream of little dramas. Every
person who walks toward me, becoming not only larger and larger but
giving an evolving impression, will bring his or her own personal
drama that climaxes as we pass by each other.

   Will that pretty woman's eyes meet mine in some mysterious
communication? It's fun to fall in love for only 10 seconds. And
what better place to do so than in the streets of New York? But
there's the other drama, too: Is that guy staggering toward me
because he's drunk, and what's that in his hand? A baseball bat?
And he's wearing a Nixon mask. I go back to my apartment and write
a poem about lunacy (mine).

   But even if _ and especially when _ the streets are deserted,
there are the buildings. If I lift my gaze, I will see a curious
architectural detail that I never noticed, even though I have
walked past it thousands of times. For years, the Chrysler Building
sparkled and radiated behind my poems, but for the last 10 years, I
have been entranced by the top of the Con Ed building, illuminated
in subtle colors at night by some genius of lighting so that it
resembles a flying chunk of ancient Babylonia.

   For a few years, the demolition of Klein's department store
afforded a magnificent view from Union Square of the entire height
of the Con Ed tower, especially in the early evening. But now the
sightlines are blocked by a new and self-important structure that
makes me grit my teeth. It's like a piece of cardboard nailed over
a Vermeer. I got so hot under the collar over this that I wrote a
prose poem about the joys of anger.

   The gutsy verve of New York's streets is echoed by other poets
who have lived in the city. I get a thrill when I read Walt
Whitman's ``I too walk'd the streets of Manhattan'' and his account
of walking along 14th Street. It's a special pleasure to read his
big poem ``Crossing Brooklyn Ferry'' while taking the, well, Staten
Island Ferry. I feel that I belong in New York when I read Edwin
Denby's powerful sonnets about West 21st Street, Sixth Avenue and
the old IND subway line, as well as his hallucinatory ``Elegy _ The
Streets.''

   I get a tingly feeling every time I look up at Furnald Hall, a
dormitory on the Columbia campus, because I know that the great
Spanish poet Federico Garcia Lorca, the author of ``Poet in New
York,'' once lived behind one of its windows. I never pass by
Rockefeller Center without thinking of a poem about Christmas in
New York, James Schuyler's heartbreakingly beautiful ``December,''
with its funny opening, ``The giant Norway spruce from Podunk ...''

   But for my money, the poet who gets the most out of New York is
Frank O'Hara, whose ``A Step Away From Them'' includes the dirty
glistening torsos of construction laborers, Coca-Cola, pet shop
windows, an electric waterfall, giant smoke rings, a blond chorus
girl, a toothpick, a quotation from Denby, a cheeseburger, three of
Frank's departed friends, a glass of papaya juice, a book by the
French poet Pierre Reverdy and more.

   In his relatively short poem, O'Hara gives us all of Times
Square in the late 1950s. It still makes me like Times Square, just
as Ted Berrigan's poem about ``reeling up First Avenue to Klein's''
makes me happy to reel up First Avenue, too, especially the block
between 11th and 12th Streets, whose deep red tenement facades
sometimes takes on a supernatural glow at sundown.

   And First Avenue will always remind me of bumping into Allen
Ginsberg, whose poetry was one of the reasons I came to New York in
the first place, at Shin's fruit stand late one night. He held up a
tomato and said, ``Ron, at 79 cents a pound, this is a very good
deal.''

   Where else in the world can all this happen? Is this not a
poet's paradise? &QL; 
 &QL;

   Strawberries in Mexico &QL; 
 &QL;

   At 14th Street and First Avenue

   Is a bank and in the bank the sexiest teller of all time

   Next to her the greatest thing about today

   Is today itself

   Through which I go up

   To buy books

   They float by under a bluer sky

   The girls uptown

   Quiet, pampered

   The sum of all that's terrible in women

   And much of the best

   And the old men go by holding small packages

   In a trance

   So rich even they can't believe it.

   I think it's a red, white, and blue letter day for them too

   You see, Con Ed's smokestacks are beautiful

   The way Queens is

   And horses: from a pleasant distance

   Or a fleet of turkeys

   Stuffed in a spotless window

   In two days they'll be sweating in ovens

   Thinking, ``How did I ever get in a fix like this?''

   Light pouring over buildings far away. &QL; 
 &QL;

   From ``New and Selected Poems by Ron Padgett. Reprinted by
permission of David R. Godine, Publishers Inc. (C)1995 by Ron
Padgett.
',
			body: '


   (af)  
 By RON PADGETT Ron Padgett's most recent collection is ``New and
Selected Poems'' (Godine). He is publications director of the
Teachers and Writers Collaborative and a teacher of imaginative
writing at Columbia University.  
 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ When the bus came over that final hill in New Jersey,
I got my first real-life glimpse of Manhattan stretched out
broadside like a futuristic battleship 11 miles long, and the surge
of excitement I felt at that moment 38 years ago has never quite
left me.

   Of course, everything looks good from a distance. And when I
reached my destination, Greenwich Village, I was met with a
Whelan's drugstore and a Howard Johnson's, at Sixth Avenue and
Eighth Street: not all that different from a busy intersection in
Tulsa, Okla., where I had just come from. Where were the thatched
cottages that my fanciful 18-year-old mind had imagined?

   My roller-coaster reactions were immediately propelled by the
pace of the streets of Manhattan, not to mention the thrill of
jaywalking. Soon, as Jack Kerouac put it, ``I did everything with
that great mad joy you get when you return to New York City.''

   The sheer energy of the streets was irresistible, a force that
made me want to go to the Museum of Modern Art, the Bleecker Street
Cinema, the Eighth Street Bookstore, Wall Street at midnight and a
thousand other places, all at the same time, and then go back to my
room and write a poem.

   Over the years, I've lost a step, but I still have to contain my
excitement when I go out into the street, because I know that out
there I will encounter an endless stream of little dramas. Every
person who walks toward me, becoming not only larger and larger but
giving an evolving impression, will bring his or her own personal
drama that climaxes as we pass by each other.

   Will that pretty woman's eyes meet mine in some mysterious
communication? It's fun to fall in love for only 10 seconds. And
what better place to do so than in the streets of New York? But
there's the other drama, too: Is that guy staggering toward me
because he's drunk, and what's that in his hand? A baseball bat?
And he's wearing a Nixon mask. I go back to my apartment and write
a poem about lunacy (mine).

   But even if _ and especially when _ the streets are deserted,
there are the buildings. If I lift my gaze, I will see a curious
architectural detail that I never noticed, even though I have
walked past it thousands of times. For years, the Chrysler Building
sparkled and radiated behind my poems, but for the last 10 years, I
have been entranced by the top of the Con Ed building, illuminated
in subtle colors at night by some genius of lighting so that it
resembles a flying chunk of ancient Babylonia.

   For a few years, the demolition of Klein's department store
afforded a magnificent view from Union Square of the entire height
of the Con Ed tower, especially in the early evening. But now the
sightlines are blocked by a new and self-important structure that
makes me grit my teeth. It's like a piece of cardboard nailed over
a Vermeer. I got so hot under the collar over this that I wrote a
prose poem about the joys of anger.

   The gutsy verve of New York's streets is echoed by other poets
who have lived in the city. I get a thrill when I read Walt
Whitman's ``I too walk'd the streets of Manhattan'' and his account
of walking along 14th Street. It's a special pleasure to read his
big poem ``Crossing Brooklyn Ferry'' while taking the, well, Staten
Island Ferry. I feel that I belong in New York when I read Edwin
Denby's powerful sonnets about West 21st Street, Sixth Avenue and
the old IND subway line, as well as his hallucinatory ``Elegy _ The
Streets.''

   I get a tingly feeling every time I look up at Furnald Hall, a
dormitory on the Columbia campus, because I know that the great
Spanish poet Federico Garcia Lorca, the author of ``Poet in New
York,'' once lived behind one of its windows. I never pass by
Rockefeller Center without thinking of a poem about Christmas in
New York, James Schuyler's heartbreakingly beautiful ``December,''
with its funny opening, ``The giant Norway spruce from Podunk ...''

   But for my money, the poet who gets the most out of New York is
Frank O'Hara, whose ``A Step Away From Them'' includes the dirty
glistening torsos of construction laborers, Coca-Cola, pet shop
windows, an electric waterfall, giant smoke rings, a blond chorus
girl, a toothpick, a quotation from Denby, a cheeseburger, three of
Frank's departed friends, a glass of papaya juice, a book by the
French poet Pierre Reverdy and more.

   In his relatively short poem, O'Hara gives us all of Times
Square in the late 1950s. It still makes me like Times Square, just
as Ted Berrigan's poem about ``reeling up First Avenue to Klein's''
makes me happy to reel up First Avenue, too, especially the block
between 11th and 12th Streets, whose deep red tenement facades
sometimes takes on a supernatural glow at sundown.

   And First Avenue will always remind me of bumping into Allen
Ginsberg, whose poetry was one of the reasons I came to New York in
the first place, at Shin's fruit stand late one night. He held up a
tomato and said, ``Ron, at 79 cents a pound, this is a very good
deal.''

   Where else in the world can all this happen? Is this not a
poet's paradise? &QL; 
 &QL;

   Strawberries in Mexico &QL; 
 &QL;

   At 14th Street and First Avenue

   Is a bank and in the bank the sexiest teller of all time

   Next to her the greatest thing about today

   Is today itself

   Through which I go up

   To buy books

   They float by under a bluer sky

   The girls uptown

   Quiet, pampered

   The sum of all that's terrible in women

   And much of the best

   And the old men go by holding small packages

   In a trance

   So rich even they can't believe it.

   I think it's a red, white, and blue letter day for them too

   You see, Con Ed's smokestacks are beautiful

   The way Queens is

   And horses: from a pleasant distance

   Or a fleet of turkeys

   Stuffed in a spotless window

   In two days they'll be sweating in ovens

   Thinking, ``How did I ever get in a fix like this?''

   Light pouring over buildings far away. &QL; 
 &QL;

   From ``New and Selected Poems by Ron Padgett. Reprinted by
permission of David R. Godine, Publishers Inc. (C)1995 by Ron
Padgett.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0296 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:17 ',
			header: '
A5396 &Cx1f; tth-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-WHEAT-SANCTIONS-SPI &LR;      06-11 0601
',
			slug: ' BC-WHEAT-SANCTIONS-SPI ',
			headline: '
CLINTON BACKS CHANGING SANCTIONS LAW TO AID WHEAT GROWERS 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Throwing its weight behind Washington wheat
growers, the Clinton administration Thursday said it wants U.S. law
changed so that the sanctions imposed on India and Pakistan for
testing nuclear weapons will not affect U.S. farmers.

   ``It is not our goal to use food exports as a tool in our
sanctions policy _ our goal is to minimize the impact of these
sanctions on the people of India and Pakistan, and we share the
concern that a cutoff of export credits would hurt U.S. farmers,''
Clinton spokesman Eric Rubin said. ``However, the law on the books
does not allow for an exception, which is why we are supporting
legislation to correct this oversight and provide an explicit
exception for food exports.''

   Northwest wheat farmers have unwittingly become one of the major
victims of Pakistan's decision to test nuclear weapons last month.
Clinton said federal law left him no choice but to impose sanctions
on Pakistan, and the Justice Department has ruled that those
sanctions must include the agricultural credit program Pakistan
uses to purchase American wheat.

   Pakistan is the largest market for Washington's white wheat, and
wheat is Washington's second largest export commodity. Last year
Pakistan imported 37 percent of the state's wheat, worth about $250
million.

   In letters to Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., and Rep. George
Nethercutt, R-Wash., Samuel Berger, assistant to the president for
National Security Affairs, offered the president's support for
legislation that would allow Pakistan to continue importing wheat
from the Northwest.

   Murray's proposal, which was also supported by Sen. Slade
Gorton, R-Wash., won the conditional approval of the Senate
Appropriations Committee Thursday, while Nethercutt's identical
proposal was approved by the a House Appropriations subcommittee on
Wednesday.

   ``Our wheat growers should not bear the brunt of these
sanctions,'' Murray said.

   No senator objected to the amendment, and several spoke in
favor, including Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, who said ``food should
never be used as a tool for foreign policy.''

   But the proposals ran into a hitch when the Congressional Budget
Office claimed it would cost $30 million to $50 million. A
Congressional Budget Office spokesman did not return a call to
explain the estimate. Washington state lawmakers said the estimate
is inexplicable and that they will demand it be changed.

   Gorton called the estimate ``utterly irrational,'' and said
changing the sanctions law should cost nothing. But Senate
Appropriations Committee Chairman Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, said the
measure would ultimately be added to the agriculture budget only if
the dispute over the cost of the amendment could be worked out.

   Rubin, the White House spokesman, said Congress has some time to
act because a strong harvest in Pakistan means that currently there
is little market there for wheat.

   ``In the immediate future, we do not anticipate a demand for
such credits, so this is an important useful window of time to act
quickly on the proposed legislation, so that it is in place when
such a demand exists, which we do expect,'' Rubin said. ``This
support for this exemption does not mean we are taking any less
seriously the nuclear testing by Pakistan and India. We simply do
not believe that cutting food exports is an effective way to
demonstrate opposition to nuclear testing.''
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients.)  
 By MICHAEL PAULSON  
 c.1998 Seattle Post-Intelligencer  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Throwing its weight behind Washington wheat
growers, the Clinton administration Thursday said it wants U.S. law
changed so that the sanctions imposed on India and Pakistan for
testing nuclear weapons will not affect U.S. farmers.

   ``It is not our goal to use food exports as a tool in our
sanctions policy _ our goal is to minimize the impact of these
sanctions on the people of India and Pakistan, and we share the
concern that a cutoff of export credits would hurt U.S. farmers,''
Clinton spokesman Eric Rubin said. ``However, the law on the books
does not allow for an exception, which is why we are supporting
legislation to correct this oversight and provide an explicit
exception for food exports.''

   Northwest wheat farmers have unwittingly become one of the major
victims of Pakistan's decision to test nuclear weapons last month.
Clinton said federal law left him no choice but to impose sanctions
on Pakistan, and the Justice Department has ruled that those
sanctions must include the agricultural credit program Pakistan
uses to purchase American wheat.

   Pakistan is the largest market for Washington's white wheat, and
wheat is Washington's second largest export commodity. Last year
Pakistan imported 37 percent of the state's wheat, worth about $250
million.

   In letters to Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., and Rep. George
Nethercutt, R-Wash., Samuel Berger, assistant to the president for
National Security Affairs, offered the president's support for
legislation that would allow Pakistan to continue importing wheat
from the Northwest.

   Murray's proposal, which was also supported by Sen. Slade
Gorton, R-Wash., won the conditional approval of the Senate
Appropriations Committee Thursday, while Nethercutt's identical
proposal was approved by the a House Appropriations subcommittee on
Wednesday.

   ``Our wheat growers should not bear the brunt of these
sanctions,'' Murray said.

   No senator objected to the amendment, and several spoke in
favor, including Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, who said ``food should
never be used as a tool for foreign policy.''

   But the proposals ran into a hitch when the Congressional Budget
Office claimed it would cost $30 million to $50 million. A
Congressional Budget Office spokesman did not return a call to
explain the estimate. Washington state lawmakers said the estimate
is inexplicable and that they will demand it be changed.

   Gorton called the estimate ``utterly irrational,'' and said
changing the sanctions law should cost nothing. But Senate
Appropriations Committee Chairman Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, said the
measure would ultimately be added to the agriculture budget only if
the dispute over the cost of the amendment could be worked out.

   Rubin, the White House spokesman, said Congress has some time to
act because a strong harvest in Pakistan means that currently there
is little market there for wheat.

   ``In the immediate future, we do not anticipate a demand for
such credits, so this is an important useful window of time to act
quickly on the proposed legislation, so that it is in place when
such a demand exists, which we do expect,'' Rubin said. ``This
support for this exemption does not mean we are taking any less
seriously the nuclear testing by Pakistan and India. We simply do
not believe that cutting food exports is an effective way to
demonstrate opposition to nuclear testing.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0297 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:17 ',
			header: '
A5398 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-RAC-BELMONT-NYT     06-11 0621
',
			slug: ' BC-RAC-BELMONT-NYT ',
			headline: '
BELMONT LIKES ITS CHANCES FOR BREEDERS' CUP
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ New York may have won more than exciting memories
from the crowd of 80,162 spectators who filled Belmont Park last
Saturday for the classic duel between Real Quiet and Victory Gallop
with the Triple Crown on the line. It may also have won extra
support for serving as host to the Breeders' Cup in the year 2000.

   ``I wrote a letter to the Breeders' Cup people three months
ago,'' Terry Meyocks, president of the New York Racing Association,
said Thursday. ``We asked for consideration as the host track for
the cup in the next available year, which is 2000. Their people
were among that crowd here last Saturday, so they saw our
performance first-hand. And it was a fine performance by everybody
from our staff to the horses.

   ``I would hope that our Belmont Day performance would add up to
an obvious push for the Breeders' Cup in two years. We had a huge
crowd and think we handled it graciously and gave racing a
memorable day.''

   The crowd was the second largest in the history of Belmont Park.
They saw Real Quiet, winner of the Kentucky Derby and the
Preakness, lose the Belmont Stakes by a nose to Victory Gallop.

   D.G. Van Clief, president of the Breeders' Cup, was traveling
Thursday. But Jim Gluckson, a spokesman for the Breeders' Cup,
said: ``No venue has been chosen yet for 2000, but Belmont Park's
performance last Saturday would be factored into the equation.
We're planning something special for the millennium. There is no
fixed rotation of tracks for the cup, but New York has had it three
times and would be considered again.''

   In the 14 years since it was inaugurated, the Breeders' Cup
races have been held at Aqueduct in 1985 and at Belmont Park in
1990 and again in 1995. This year's cup, with seven races
commanding purses of $12 million, will be run at Churchill Downs in
Louisville, Ky., on Nov. 7; next year's will be at Gulfstream Park
in Florida on Nov. 6.

   Trainer Elected to Hall

   Ansel Williamson, a former slave who trained the first winner of
the Kentucky Derby and other 19th century champions, was elected to
the Racing Hall of Fame Thursday and will be inducted Aug. 10 at
Saratoga Springs.

   ``Several years ago,'' said John von Stade, president of the
hall, ``we established a Historic Review Committee for the purpose
of examining the careers of figures who may have been passed over
for one reason or another during the half-century of Hall of Fame
Elections. The committee felt strongly that the achievements of
Ansel Williamson deserve his recognition as a Hall of Fame
trainer.''

   Williamson was born around 1806 in Virginia and is believed to
have started his career as a horse trainer in the 1850s in the Deep
South. He trained horses for several owners while still a slave and
later after he was freed. Among his champions were Aristedes, who
won the inaugural Kentucky Derby in 1875, as well as horses who won
the Belmont Stakes, the Travers, the Withers and the Jersey Derby.

   He will be inducted into the Hall of Fame with trainer Bill Mott
and jockey Jacinto Vasquez and several star horses of the past, who
were elected earlier this year by a panel of 100 writers,
broadcasters and historians.

   13 Set for Brooklyn Handicap

   A long and strong field of 13 horses was entered Thursday for
the $300,000 Brooklyn Handicap Saturday at a mile and an eighth at
Belmont Park. Top weight of 118 pounds was assigned to Sir Bear and
Frisk Me Now. Their chief rivals: Acceptable, Accelerator, Unruled,
Subordination and a pair of stars from last year, Behrens and
Ordway.
',
			body: '


  (ja) 
 By JOSEPH DURSO    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ New York may have won more than exciting memories
from the crowd of 80,162 spectators who filled Belmont Park last
Saturday for the classic duel between Real Quiet and Victory Gallop
with the Triple Crown on the line. It may also have won extra
support for serving as host to the Breeders' Cup in the year 2000.

   ``I wrote a letter to the Breeders' Cup people three months
ago,'' Terry Meyocks, president of the New York Racing Association,
said Thursday. ``We asked for consideration as the host track for
the cup in the next available year, which is 2000. Their people
were among that crowd here last Saturday, so they saw our
performance first-hand. And it was a fine performance by everybody
from our staff to the horses.

   ``I would hope that our Belmont Day performance would add up to
an obvious push for the Breeders' Cup in two years. We had a huge
crowd and think we handled it graciously and gave racing a
memorable day.''

   The crowd was the second largest in the history of Belmont Park.
They saw Real Quiet, winner of the Kentucky Derby and the
Preakness, lose the Belmont Stakes by a nose to Victory Gallop.

   D.G. Van Clief, president of the Breeders' Cup, was traveling
Thursday. But Jim Gluckson, a spokesman for the Breeders' Cup,
said: ``No venue has been chosen yet for 2000, but Belmont Park's
performance last Saturday would be factored into the equation.
We're planning something special for the millennium. There is no
fixed rotation of tracks for the cup, but New York has had it three
times and would be considered again.''

   In the 14 years since it was inaugurated, the Breeders' Cup
races have been held at Aqueduct in 1985 and at Belmont Park in
1990 and again in 1995. This year's cup, with seven races
commanding purses of $12 million, will be run at Churchill Downs in
Louisville, Ky., on Nov. 7; next year's will be at Gulfstream Park
in Florida on Nov. 6.

   Trainer Elected to Hall

   Ansel Williamson, a former slave who trained the first winner of
the Kentucky Derby and other 19th century champions, was elected to
the Racing Hall of Fame Thursday and will be inducted Aug. 10 at
Saratoga Springs.

   ``Several years ago,'' said John von Stade, president of the
hall, ``we established a Historic Review Committee for the purpose
of examining the careers of figures who may have been passed over
for one reason or another during the half-century of Hall of Fame
Elections. The committee felt strongly that the achievements of
Ansel Williamson deserve his recognition as a Hall of Fame
trainer.''

   Williamson was born around 1806 in Virginia and is believed to
have started his career as a horse trainer in the 1850s in the Deep
South. He trained horses for several owners while still a slave and
later after he was freed. Among his champions were Aristedes, who
won the inaugural Kentucky Derby in 1875, as well as horses who won
the Belmont Stakes, the Travers, the Withers and the Jersey Derby.

   He will be inducted into the Hall of Fame with trainer Bill Mott
and jockey Jacinto Vasquez and several star horses of the past, who
were elected earlier this year by a panel of 100 writers,
broadcasters and historians.

   13 Set for Brooklyn Handicap

   A long and strong field of 13 horses was entered Thursday for
the $300,000 Brooklyn Handicap Saturday at a mile and an eighth at
Belmont Park. Top weight of 118 pounds was assigned to Sir Bear and
Frisk Me Now. Their chief rivals: Acceptable, Accelerator, Unruled,
Subordination and a pair of stars from last year, Behrens and
Ordway.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0298 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:20 ',
			header: '
A5402 &Cx1f; tta-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-KOSOVO-LANDMINES-NYT &LR;      06-11 0888
',
			slug: ' BC-KOSOVO-LANDMINES-NYT ',
			headline: '
YUGOSLAV ARMY IS MINING ALBANIAN BORDER IN EFFORT TO STOP KOSOVO
REBELS 
',
			trailer: '
   KUKES, Albania _ The Yugoslav army is seeding the Albanian
border with land mines, apparently in an effort to stop Kosovo
rebels from crossing the border and to prevent the return of
thousands who have been driven from their homes, European military
observers in the area said on Thursday.

   President Slobodan Milosevic's orders to mine the border, which
stretches for about 75 miles, could also result in a broadening of
the conflict if it leads Kosovo's ethnic Albanian separatists to
resort to using the Macedonian border to bring weapons and fighters
into the Serbian province of Kosovo.

   An increase in the presence of armed rebels in western
Macedonia, where the country's Albanian minority lives, could
increase border tensions, induce ethnic Albanians in Macedonia join
the Kosovo Liberation Army in its fight, and eventually draw
Macedonia into the conflict.

   ``Milosevic is once again sowing the seeds of war,'' said a
European military observer who spoke on condition of anonymity.
``He wants to solve the conflict in Kosovo militarily and fails to
understand that each time he brings down the hammer, new fires pop
up all around him.''

   U.N. troops, including American soldiers, are stationed on the
border between Serbia and Macedonia to prevent those countries from
going to war over contested territory.

   That mission, NATO planners said, may have to be beefed up to
prevent Macedonia from becoming a staging area for the rebels.
There are reports, Western diplomats said, that the Kosovo
Liberation Army has already used the Macedonian border to smuggle
in fighters and some weapons.

   The news of the land mines came from intelligence reports and
witness accounts. They are being planted in an area left vacant by
the shelling of scores of villages and hamlets in Kosovo by
Yugoslav forces. What remained was razed, leaving an unpopulated
swath, and the military observers said planting mines in the area
would insure that it remains a desolate buffer zone between Albania
and Serbia.

   ``In military terms mining the border region makes sense,'' said
a European military official, who asked not to be identified. ``The
KLA is pouring men and weapons into Kosovo from Albania. If the
zone is emptied of civilians and covered with land mines, this will
impede the movement of the guerrillas and make it harder for the
rebels to use Albania as a sanctuary.''

   The mining follows two weeks of a heavy counterinsurgency
campaign by the Serbs to clear an area along the Albanian border.

   As many as 80,000 people have been displaced by the fighting,
the destruction of towns and the daily shelling by heavy artillery
pieces mounted on the hills above the border towns.

   Milosevic appears to want to empty the border town of Djakovica,
where the population of 60,000 has doubled with an influx of ethnic
Albanians displaced from surrounding villages.

   The Serbs have ringed Djakovica with checkpoints and cut phone
communication and most food supplies, according to diplomats who
have visited the area. There has been heavy shelling of the
villages around the city for two days, with large shells slamming
into areas just a mile away from the town.

   ``This is the tactic used to empty the other population
centers,'' a European military observer said, ``but Djakovica may
be the final straw. If the Serbs attack Djakovica, they will create
another 120,000 refugees. This may be too much for NATO to
swallow.''

   The conflict in Kosovo erupted in March when Serbian special
police units moved into central Kosovo in an effort to wipe out the
nascent rebel movement. The initial attack left more than 80 dead,
including children, and pushed the ethnic Albanians, who make up 90
percent of the province's population of 2 million, to revolt.

   The Kosovo Liberation Army has since mushroomed into a large,
well-armed force. It sends columns of 100 to 200 uniformed fighters
over the Albanian border nearly every night. But the rebel
movement's leadership is poor and its training only rudimentary,
and those problems, coupled with a disastrous strategy of trying to
hold towns against superior Serbian forces, have so far hampered
its effectiveness.

   ``It is only a matter of time before the rebels begin to operate
as a mobile guerrilla army and bleed a demoralized and dispirited
police and military,'' a European military observer said.

   There are reports in the Belgrade press of dismissals of
policemen who have refused to go to Kosovo, desertions and
widespread draft-dodging such as took place during the war in
Croatia and Bosnia.

   The violence has doomed any hope, for the moment, of a
negotiated solution to the conflict. It has also brought the ethnic
Albanians closer to realizing their goal of a separate state, a
goal most of the outside world rejects.

   Washington and European capitals insist that Belgrade grant the
ethnic Albanians autonomy but that the province remain part of
Yugoslavia, now made up of Montenegro and Serbia. Many diplomats
concede, however, that the proposal is probably unworkable given
the intensity of the fighting.
',
			body: '


  (See also KOSOVO-NATO, KOSOVO-RUSSIA) 
(sw) 
 By CHRIS HEDGES   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   KUKES, Albania _ The Yugoslav army is seeding the Albanian
border with land mines, apparently in an effort to stop Kosovo
rebels from crossing the border and to prevent the return of
thousands who have been driven from their homes, European military
observers in the area said on Thursday.

   President Slobodan Milosevic's orders to mine the border, which
stretches for about 75 miles, could also result in a broadening of
the conflict if it leads Kosovo's ethnic Albanian separatists to
resort to using the Macedonian border to bring weapons and fighters
into the Serbian province of Kosovo.

   An increase in the presence of armed rebels in western
Macedonia, where the country's Albanian minority lives, could
increase border tensions, induce ethnic Albanians in Macedonia join
the Kosovo Liberation Army in its fight, and eventually draw
Macedonia into the conflict.

   ``Milosevic is once again sowing the seeds of war,'' said a
European military observer who spoke on condition of anonymity.
``He wants to solve the conflict in Kosovo militarily and fails to
understand that each time he brings down the hammer, new fires pop
up all around him.''

   U.N. troops, including American soldiers, are stationed on the
border between Serbia and Macedonia to prevent those countries from
going to war over contested territory.

   That mission, NATO planners said, may have to be beefed up to
prevent Macedonia from becoming a staging area for the rebels.
There are reports, Western diplomats said, that the Kosovo
Liberation Army has already used the Macedonian border to smuggle
in fighters and some weapons.

   The news of the land mines came from intelligence reports and
witness accounts. They are being planted in an area left vacant by
the shelling of scores of villages and hamlets in Kosovo by
Yugoslav forces. What remained was razed, leaving an unpopulated
swath, and the military observers said planting mines in the area
would insure that it remains a desolate buffer zone between Albania
and Serbia.

   ``In military terms mining the border region makes sense,'' said
a European military official, who asked not to be identified. ``The
KLA is pouring men and weapons into Kosovo from Albania. If the
zone is emptied of civilians and covered with land mines, this will
impede the movement of the guerrillas and make it harder for the
rebels to use Albania as a sanctuary.''

   The mining follows two weeks of a heavy counterinsurgency
campaign by the Serbs to clear an area along the Albanian border.

   As many as 80,000 people have been displaced by the fighting,
the destruction of towns and the daily shelling by heavy artillery
pieces mounted on the hills above the border towns.

   Milosevic appears to want to empty the border town of Djakovica,
where the population of 60,000 has doubled with an influx of ethnic
Albanians displaced from surrounding villages.

   The Serbs have ringed Djakovica with checkpoints and cut phone
communication and most food supplies, according to diplomats who
have visited the area. There has been heavy shelling of the
villages around the city for two days, with large shells slamming
into areas just a mile away from the town.

   ``This is the tactic used to empty the other population
centers,'' a European military observer said, ``but Djakovica may
be the final straw. If the Serbs attack Djakovica, they will create
another 120,000 refugees. This may be too much for NATO to
swallow.''

   The conflict in Kosovo erupted in March when Serbian special
police units moved into central Kosovo in an effort to wipe out the
nascent rebel movement. The initial attack left more than 80 dead,
including children, and pushed the ethnic Albanians, who make up 90
percent of the province's population of 2 million, to revolt.

   The Kosovo Liberation Army has since mushroomed into a large,
well-armed force. It sends columns of 100 to 200 uniformed fighters
over the Albanian border nearly every night. But the rebel
movement's leadership is poor and its training only rudimentary,
and those problems, coupled with a disastrous strategy of trying to
hold towns against superior Serbian forces, have so far hampered
its effectiveness.

   ``It is only a matter of time before the rebels begin to operate
as a mobile guerrilla army and bleed a demoralized and dispirited
police and military,'' a European military observer said.

   There are reports in the Belgrade press of dismissals of
policemen who have refused to go to Kosovo, desertions and
widespread draft-dodging such as took place during the war in
Croatia and Bosnia.

   The violence has doomed any hope, for the moment, of a
negotiated solution to the conflict. It has also brought the ethnic
Albanians closer to realizing their goal of a separate state, a
goal most of the outside world rejects.

   Washington and European capitals insist that Belgrade grant the
ethnic Albanians autonomy but that the province remain part of
Yugoslavia, now made up of Montenegro and Serbia. Many diplomats
concede, however, that the proposal is probably unworkable given
the intensity of the fighting.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0299 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:22 ',
			header: '
A5403 &Cx1f; taf-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TOBACCO-CONGRESS-ART-     06-11 1181
',
			slug: ' BC-TOBACCO-CONGRESS-ART-NYT ',
			headline: '
SENATE REJECTS PROPOSAL TO LIMIT LAWYERS' FEES IN TOBACCO SUITS 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ For the second time in a month, the Senate on
Thursday rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies.

   The issue was one of the few critical ones remaining before the
Senate in the comprehensive tobacco legislation, probably the
biggest and most contentious bill before Congress this year.

   The Senate is not likely to consider the issue of legal fees
again in connection with this bill, which has been in the Senate
for debate since the middle of May. Indications were that a final
vote could come next week.

   Complaining that some trial lawyers stand to make tens and even
hundreds of millions of dollars from tobacco lawsuits, Republicans
tried and failed May 18 to impose a $250 an hour limit on legal
fees.

   Thursday, they raised the limit to $1,000 an hour and still
lost, on a vote of 50-45.

   Sen. Lauch Faircloth, R-N.C., who was the chief sponsor of the
amendment, declared that lawyers should be ashamed for seeking such
large fees.

   ``The federal government,'' he declared, ``cannot put its stamp
on legislation that diverts billions of dollars from taxpayers to
pay trial lawyers grossly excessive fees.''

   Sen. Michael Enzi, R-Ariz., said he was flabbergasted that
anyone could object to such a high ceiling on legal payments. ``A
thousand dollars an hour!'' he declared. ``There are a lot of
people in my state who don't make that much in a month.''

   But Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., countered that the trial
lawyers were heroes, not villains, having taken enormous risks in
challenging the cigarette makers and should not have their
compensation limited.

   The lawyers brought suits ``when we were asleep at the switch,''
he said, making a sweeping gesture at the Senate chamber, ``not
doing anything about children smoking.''

   A former trial lawyer himself, Hollings expressed contempt for
``the corporate billable hour fellow sitting on his duff and
charging for it.''

   The anti-smoking bill before the Senate would still establish an
arbitration panel to decide the proper fees in successful suits
against cigarette companies.

   The Senate also voted Thursday for a Democratic amendment that
would set aside some of the money raised from the higher prices on
cigarettes to give grants to the states for child-care programs.

   After disposing of the issue of lawyers' fees, the Senate turned
to a less contested amendment that would restrict the tax
deductions cigarette makers could take for their advertising
expenses. A vote is not expected on that until Monday.

   Several other similar amendments unlikely to affect the eventual
fate of the legislation are also pending. The most difficult
remaining issue involves whether the government's price-support
program for tobacco farmers should be abolished and how farmers and
communities that are economically dependent on tobacco should be
compensated.

   The basic bill would raise the price of cigarettes by at least
$1.10 a pack over five years, give the Food and Drug Administration
new authority to regulate tobacco, create new smoking-cessation and
research programs and impose stiff penalties on cigarette makers if
the number of teen-agers who smoke does not fall to specified
levels.

   The chief sponsor of the legislation, Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz.,
suggested Thursday that the time was near when the Senate should
end the debate and vote on the bill. Negotiations seemed to be
under way to work out an end game.

   For the third straight day, the Senate, voting along party
lines, rejected Thursday a Democratic move, called cloture, to stop
the debate.

   As long as Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott opposes cloture,
Republicans will back him, and the move will fail. But the word in
the cloakrooms Thursday was that it was only a matter of time
before Lott offered a cloture motion himself. If that happens, the
bill will probably be passed.

   Lott said Thursday afternoon that he had not decided what course
to take.

   The situation is much more problematic in the House. Republican
leaders there are opposed to higher taxes on cigarettes and want
much less ambitious legislation than the Senate package.

   The question of lawyers' fees is a highly partisan one that goes
well beyond the tobacco issue.

   Trial lawyers are among the Democrats' most generous donors and
loyal supporters. For years, President Clinton and Democrats in
Congress have fought Republican attempts to make it more difficult
for consumers to collect money from damage suits over faulty
products.

   Republicans, on the other hand, depend on business interests for
political support. Many businesses are generally afraid of damage
suits and especially fearful that lawyers will use a windfall from
tobacco cases to bankroll lawsuits against companies in other
fields.

   On the vote Thursday, 12 Republicans, including Sen. Alfonse
D'Amato of New York, broke ranks and voted to reject the limit on
lawyers' fees. Only four Democrats, including Christopher Dodd and
Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut, voted to impose the limit.

   Because they do not have the resources to sue the tobacco
companies on their own, many states have signed contracts with
private lawyers with a promise of paying them a percentage of the
damages if they won. But when these contracts were signed, no one
had any idea how large the awards might be.

   Faircloth calculated that if the lawyers received 15 percent of
the total the government would collect in the settlement of
lawsuits under the tobacco legislation now under consideration, the
total would come to $4 billion a year.

   One thousand dollars an hour is much more than even the most
elite lawyers who charge by the hour earn. But those who sue the
tobacco companies spend large amounts of time and their own money,
and they make nothing if the suits are unsuccessful.

   The archetype of the lawyer who took that kind of risk is
Richard Scruggs, who put up $5 million of his own money to bring
Mississippi's trailblazing suit against the tobacco industry. The
industry settled with the state last year for $3.3 billion.

   So far, Scruggs has received nothing. He has said that his fee
will be determined by arbitrators. But even if he receives 1
percent, a very low contingency fee, that would be $33 million.

   Scruggs, who is Lott's brother-in-law (their wives are sisters)
was in the VIP gallery Thursday watching the debate. ``I didn't
know whether to stand up and take a bow or put a bag over my
head,'' he said afterward.

   Because of his family connection, Lott voted ``present'' on the
amendment Thursday.
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: N.C., N.Y., Conn., Ariz., S.C.)  (ART ADV: Photo is being sent to NYT photo clients. Non-subscribers
can make individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(bl) 
 By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ For the second time in a month, the Senate on
Thursday rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies.

   The issue was one of the few critical ones remaining before the
Senate in the comprehensive tobacco legislation, probably the
biggest and most contentious bill before Congress this year.

   The Senate is not likely to consider the issue of legal fees
again in connection with this bill, which has been in the Senate
for debate since the middle of May. Indications were that a final
vote could come next week.

   Complaining that some trial lawyers stand to make tens and even
hundreds of millions of dollars from tobacco lawsuits, Republicans
tried and failed May 18 to impose a $250 an hour limit on legal
fees.

   Thursday, they raised the limit to $1,000 an hour and still
lost, on a vote of 50-45.

   Sen. Lauch Faircloth, R-N.C., who was the chief sponsor of the
amendment, declared that lawyers should be ashamed for seeking such
large fees.

   ``The federal government,'' he declared, ``cannot put its stamp
on legislation that diverts billions of dollars from taxpayers to
pay trial lawyers grossly excessive fees.''

   Sen. Michael Enzi, R-Ariz., said he was flabbergasted that
anyone could object to such a high ceiling on legal payments. ``A
thousand dollars an hour!'' he declared. ``There are a lot of
people in my state who don't make that much in a month.''

   But Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., countered that the trial
lawyers were heroes, not villains, having taken enormous risks in
challenging the cigarette makers and should not have their
compensation limited.

   The lawyers brought suits ``when we were asleep at the switch,''
he said, making a sweeping gesture at the Senate chamber, ``not
doing anything about children smoking.''

   A former trial lawyer himself, Hollings expressed contempt for
``the corporate billable hour fellow sitting on his duff and
charging for it.''

   The anti-smoking bill before the Senate would still establish an
arbitration panel to decide the proper fees in successful suits
against cigarette companies.

   The Senate also voted Thursday for a Democratic amendment that
would set aside some of the money raised from the higher prices on
cigarettes to give grants to the states for child-care programs.

   After disposing of the issue of lawyers' fees, the Senate turned
to a less contested amendment that would restrict the tax
deductions cigarette makers could take for their advertising
expenses. A vote is not expected on that until Monday.

   Several other similar amendments unlikely to affect the eventual
fate of the legislation are also pending. The most difficult
remaining issue involves whether the government's price-support
program for tobacco farmers should be abolished and how farmers and
communities that are economically dependent on tobacco should be
compensated.

   The basic bill would raise the price of cigarettes by at least
$1.10 a pack over five years, give the Food and Drug Administration
new authority to regulate tobacco, create new smoking-cessation and
research programs and impose stiff penalties on cigarette makers if
the number of teen-agers who smoke does not fall to specified
levels.

   The chief sponsor of the legislation, Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz.,
suggested Thursday that the time was near when the Senate should
end the debate and vote on the bill. Negotiations seemed to be
under way to work out an end game.

   For the third straight day, the Senate, voting along party
lines, rejected Thursday a Democratic move, called cloture, to stop
the debate.

   As long as Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott opposes cloture,
Republicans will back him, and the move will fail. But the word in
the cloakrooms Thursday was that it was only a matter of time
before Lott offered a cloture motion himself. If that happens, the
bill will probably be passed.

   Lott said Thursday afternoon that he had not decided what course
to take.

   The situation is much more problematic in the House. Republican
leaders there are opposed to higher taxes on cigarettes and want
much less ambitious legislation than the Senate package.

   The question of lawyers' fees is a highly partisan one that goes
well beyond the tobacco issue.

   Trial lawyers are among the Democrats' most generous donors and
loyal supporters. For years, President Clinton and Democrats in
Congress have fought Republican attempts to make it more difficult
for consumers to collect money from damage suits over faulty
products.

   Republicans, on the other hand, depend on business interests for
political support. Many businesses are generally afraid of damage
suits and especially fearful that lawyers will use a windfall from
tobacco cases to bankroll lawsuits against companies in other
fields.

   On the vote Thursday, 12 Republicans, including Sen. Alfonse
D'Amato of New York, broke ranks and voted to reject the limit on
lawyers' fees. Only four Democrats, including Christopher Dodd and
Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut, voted to impose the limit.

   Because they do not have the resources to sue the tobacco
companies on their own, many states have signed contracts with
private lawyers with a promise of paying them a percentage of the
damages if they won. But when these contracts were signed, no one
had any idea how large the awards might be.

   Faircloth calculated that if the lawyers received 15 percent of
the total the government would collect in the settlement of
lawsuits under the tobacco legislation now under consideration, the
total would come to $4 billion a year.

   One thousand dollars an hour is much more than even the most
elite lawyers who charge by the hour earn. But those who sue the
tobacco companies spend large amounts of time and their own money,
and they make nothing if the suits are unsuccessful.

   The archetype of the lawyer who took that kind of risk is
Richard Scruggs, who put up $5 million of his own money to bring
Mississippi's trailblazing suit against the tobacco industry. The
industry settled with the state last year for $3.3 billion.

   So far, Scruggs has received nothing. He has said that his fee
will be determined by arbitrators. But even if he receives 1
percent, a very low contingency fee, that would be $33 million.

   Scruggs, who is Lott's brother-in-law (their wives are sisters)
was in the VIP gallery Thursday watching the debate. ``I didn't
know whether to stand up and take a bow or put a bag over my
head,'' he said afterward.

   Because of his family connection, Lott voted ``present'' on the
amendment Thursday.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0300 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:23 ',
			header: '
A5405 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GLF-ANDERSON-COLUMN-N     06-11 0747
',
			slug: ' BC-GLF-ANDERSON-COLUMN-NYT ',
			headline: '
SPORTS COLUMN: LOVE GIVES ELS REFERRAL FOR THERAPIST  
(JT)
',
			trailer: '
   HARRISON, N.Y. _ In the PGA Tour's fitness trailer before his
round Thursday morning, Davis Love III noticed that Ernie Els was
stretched out on a table. And as they and Frank Nobilo played their
first nine holes in the Buick Classic, Love knew that the world's
No. 1-ranked golfer wasn't himself.

   Love knew, because anyone suffering from back problems can
always tell when somebody else is suffering from back problems.

   ``Ernie was putting for par on almost every hole,'' Love would
say later, alluding to Els' 3-over-par 38 before he withdrew after
the front nine. ``He didn't complain at all. He just said, `Sorry,
boys.'''

   Els, who won the Buick Classic at the Westchester Country Club
the past two years and will be the defending champion at next
week's U.S. Open in San Francisco, suffered back spasms Wednesday
night.

   I told him, `Go see Tom,''' Love said. ``I wrote down Tom's name
and gave it to him.''

   Tom Boers, a therapist at the Hugston Clinic in Columbus, Ga.,
has treated Love, Fred Couples, Phil Mickelson, Greg Norman, Brad
Faxon, Loren Roberts and Larry Mize, among others, for what golfers
dread even more than a triple bogey: back problems.

   Jack Nicklaus has had a tender spine. Fuzzy Zoeller needed disk
surgery. Tiger Woods skipped last week's Kemper Open with twinges.
Els is the latest victim.

   ``Obviously, next week is a day-to-day thing at this point,''
Els said. ``I certainly hope I can take care of this soon. I'm
either going to see Tom Boers or somebody.''

   Els has such a smooth, syrupy swing, it seemed that he would be
exempt from back problems. But according to Boers, a native of the
Netherlands with a specialty degree in manual therapy, the normal
twists and turns of the golf swing are only part of a touring pro's
problem.

   ``I think it's not so much golf as too much golf,'' Boers said
from his office. ``Some beat balls for three hours. Some have a
brutal schedule with tremendous travel. They go everywhere. It's an
overload. And sitting on an airplane can be hard on your disks.''

   Love knows. His back has bothered him since 1995, but lately he
has had sciatica pain in his legs. Especially on a jet.

   ``I'm not sure how I'm going to San Francisco for the Open,'' he
said. ``I'm thinking about going halfway one day, then going the
other half the next day. Some of us are also thinking about
chartering a jet.''

   Overload, as Boers calls it, might also have contributed to
Love's 2-over-par 73 in Thursday's first round.

   ``After playing in the pro-am Wednesday,'' Love said, ``I went
over to Winged Foot and played 14 holes.''

   But those 14 holes at nearby Winged Foot weren't so much for
practice as they were for the memory of his winning the
Professional Golfers' Association Championship there last year.
Then and now, he is staying with a friend, Harland Batrus, a bond
broker, in Batrus' home near the West course's third tee.

   ``It was so much fun,'' Love said of those 14 holes before dark,
``we just kept going.''

   But winning the PGA at Winged Foot was the most fun Love has
ever had in his golf career.

   ``People seem to be more touched by that win than anything I've
ever done,'' he said of his first major title, which he dedicated
to his late father and golf mentor, Davis Love Jr., a renowned
teaching pro who was killed in a 1988 plane crash. ``I've had
people tell me, `I sat in front of the TV that day and cried with
you.'''

   For all of Love's good shots in his final-round 66 that day, his
most vivid memory is that of the scene at the first tee.

   ``Standing there with Byron Nelson and Justin Leonard and
htting my ball down the middle of the fairway with that big
Wanamaker Trophy sitting on a table behind me,'' he said, referring
to the Hall of Fame golfer and the reigning British Open champion.
``When I did that, I knew something good was going to happen.''

   And as Love putted out on the 18th green, a rainbow hung above
him.

   With or without a rainbow, Davis Love III will be trying to win
the U.S. Open title despite his back twinges.

   ``When I won the Heritage at Hilton Head and then the Chunichi
Crowns in Japan the next week,'' he recalled, ``I took Monday and
Tuesday off because of my back.''

   Will he do that next week?

   ``I might need to,'' he said.
',
			body: '


   By DAVE ANDERSON    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   HARRISON, N.Y. _ In the PGA Tour's fitness trailer before his
round Thursday morning, Davis Love III noticed that Ernie Els was
stretched out on a table. And as they and Frank Nobilo played their
first nine holes in the Buick Classic, Love knew that the world's
No. 1-ranked golfer wasn't himself.

   Love knew, because anyone suffering from back problems can
always tell when somebody else is suffering from back problems.

   ``Ernie was putting for par on almost every hole,'' Love would
say later, alluding to Els' 3-over-par 38 before he withdrew after
the front nine. ``He didn't complain at all. He just said, `Sorry,
boys.'''

   Els, who won the Buick Classic at the Westchester Country Club
the past two years and will be the defending champion at next
week's U.S. Open in San Francisco, suffered back spasms Wednesday
night.

   I told him, `Go see Tom,''' Love said. ``I wrote down Tom's name
and gave it to him.''

   Tom Boers, a therapist at the Hugston Clinic in Columbus, Ga.,
has treated Love, Fred Couples, Phil Mickelson, Greg Norman, Brad
Faxon, Loren Roberts and Larry Mize, among others, for what golfers
dread even more than a triple bogey: back problems.

   Jack Nicklaus has had a tender spine. Fuzzy Zoeller needed disk
surgery. Tiger Woods skipped last week's Kemper Open with twinges.
Els is the latest victim.

   ``Obviously, next week is a day-to-day thing at this point,''
Els said. ``I certainly hope I can take care of this soon. I'm
either going to see Tom Boers or somebody.''

   Els has such a smooth, syrupy swing, it seemed that he would be
exempt from back problems. But according to Boers, a native of the
Netherlands with a specialty degree in manual therapy, the normal
twists and turns of the golf swing are only part of a touring pro's
problem.

   ``I think it's not so much golf as too much golf,'' Boers said
from his office. ``Some beat balls for three hours. Some have a
brutal schedule with tremendous travel. They go everywhere. It's an
overload. And sitting on an airplane can be hard on your disks.''

   Love knows. His back has bothered him since 1995, but lately he
has had sciatica pain in his legs. Especially on a jet.

   ``I'm not sure how I'm going to San Francisco for the Open,'' he
said. ``I'm thinking about going halfway one day, then going the
other half the next day. Some of us are also thinking about
chartering a jet.''

   Overload, as Boers calls it, might also have contributed to
Love's 2-over-par 73 in Thursday's first round.

   ``After playing in the pro-am Wednesday,'' Love said, ``I went
over to Winged Foot and played 14 holes.''

   But those 14 holes at nearby Winged Foot weren't so much for
practice as they were for the memory of his winning the
Professional Golfers' Association Championship there last year.
Then and now, he is staying with a friend, Harland Batrus, a bond
broker, in Batrus' home near the West course's third tee.

   ``It was so much fun,'' Love said of those 14 holes before dark,
``we just kept going.''

   But winning the PGA at Winged Foot was the most fun Love has
ever had in his golf career.

   ``People seem to be more touched by that win than anything I've
ever done,'' he said of his first major title, which he dedicated
to his late father and golf mentor, Davis Love Jr., a renowned
teaching pro who was killed in a 1988 plane crash. ``I've had
people tell me, `I sat in front of the TV that day and cried with
you.'''

   For all of Love's good shots in his final-round 66 that day, his
most vivid memory is that of the scene at the first tee.

   ``Standing there with Byron Nelson and Justin Leonard and
htting my ball down the middle of the fairway with that big
Wanamaker Trophy sitting on a table behind me,'' he said, referring
to the Hall of Fame golfer and the reigning British Open champion.
``When I did that, I knew something good was going to happen.''

   And as Love putted out on the 18th green, a rainbow hung above
him.

   With or without a rainbow, Davis Love III will be trying to win
the U.S. Open title despite his back twinges.

   ``When I won the Heritage at Hilton Head and then the Chunichi
Crowns in Japan the next week,'' he recalled, ``I took Monday and
Tuesday off because of my back.''

   Will he do that next week?

   ``I might need to,'' he said.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0301 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:23 ',
			header: '
A5406 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ATTENDANT-HARASS-HNS &LR;      06-11 0939
',
			slug: ' BC-ATTENDANT-HARASS-HNS ',
			headline: '
JURY AWARDS FORMER FLIGHT ATTENDANT $375,000 IN COMPUTER CASE 

',
			trailer: '
   CONROE, Texas _ A former flight attendant, who claimed she was
sexually harassed by a Continental pilot who used a computer to
superimpose her face on the bodies of bikini-clad and nude women,
was awarded about $375,000 by a sympathetic jury Thursday.

   Amanda Butler, 27, of The Woodlands, obtained civil judgments
against the pilot, 44-year-old Rainer Krebs of nearby Seabrook, and
Continental Express _ a subsidiary of Houston-based Continental
Airlines _ in a lawsuit that required three days of deliberations
by eight men and four women on a Montgomery County jury.

   The Woodlands is an unincorporated community of 51,000 about 30
miles north of downtown Houston.

   Jurors found that Krebs, who lied in telling other airline
employees that Butler had posed nude for him, defamed Butler. She
was awarded $50,000 for damage to her reputation and character and
another $50,000 for mental anguish and humiliation.

   Jurors also hit Krebs with about $75,000 in damages for offenses
such as ``intentional infliction of emotional distress'' and
invasion of privacy.

   While clearing Continental Express of reckless indifference and
gross negligence, jurors found that the company was liable in the
amount of a $50,000 award to Butler for ``negligence in the
supervision, training or retaining of Rainer Krebs as an
employee.''

   Krebs was characterized by trial witnesses as a ``pervert'' and
described by one of the male jurors as ``a total pig.''

   Krebs, however, said he never anticipated that Butler would be
offended when, as a joke, he popped open a laptop computer in the
cockpit of a commuter plane and showed her the image of her face on
the body of a model from a page out of a Sports Illustrated
swimsuit edition.

   Other witnesses said they had seen or heard about the faces of
Butler and other flight attendants being superimposed on nude
pictures, but no evidence of nude imagery was presented in court.
Butler's lawyers argued that the evidence was destroyed by Krebs,
who according to testimony from a computer expert had used a
deletion device to erase images in his computer.

   There was no solid evidence to prove that Krebs had placed any
photographs of Butler on the Internet _ an issue that Butler said
was of great concern to her.

   Krebs said he had apologized to Butler almost immediately after
showing her the swimsuit picture. He denied allegations of any
other pictures of her or other attendants.

   &QL; 
(BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Butler's lawyers presented testimony from three other flight
attendants who had complained of run-ins with Krebs, including two
who claimed they had been sexually harassed by him. His lawyer,
Patrick Flynn, said the complaints stemmed from misunderstandings
or were intended as retribution because Krebs had reported the
women for procedural infractions.

   ``There has never been any sexual harassment intended by him,
and some of these complaints that were brought up involved stuff
that has to be stretched to make sexual harassment out of it,''
Flynn said.

   &QL; 
(END OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Butler resigned about three months after the May 12, 1996,
episode involving the swimsuit graphic. She has since obtained a
teaching certificate and accepted a job in the Conroe school
district as a high-school journalism teacher.

   Krebs is no longer employed by Continental Express, but is a
pilot for the larger parent company, Continental Airlines.

   &QL; 
(BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Airline officials said they were restricted in the discipline
they could mete out in response to the swimsuit picture because of
Krebs' union membership.

   ``They've tried to put blame on the union, but they never made
any effort to contact the union,'' said Rick Rutledge, Butler's
attorney.

   &QL; 
(END OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Butler received an additional $25,000 for compensatory damages
and $17,712 in back pay, along with about $96,000 for attorney
fees. All of the monetary awards were among the 15 legal rulings,
which were not all unanimous, that jurors had to make after almost
two weeks of trial.

   Ferrell Surette, a delivery driver of The Woodlands, said he
could not go along with other jurors because he considered Kreb's
actions as ``a joke.''

   ``I don't mean any offense to Amanda Butler; I understand that
it was offensive to her, but it was a joke and in my opinion it
shouldn't have come to this (litigation),'' Surette said.

   Others jurors agreed that the dispute did not necessarily belong
in the court system. But two of the four women jurors, who asked
not to be identified, said they and most of the other jurors agreed
that Krebs deserved some punishment and that Continental Express
had ``dropped the ball'' by docking Krebs two weeks of pay for the
computerized swimsuit incident and then not following through to
make sure the money was withheld.

   Butler's lawyers accused the company, whose officials claimed
that clerical errors were made in not withholding pay, of
intentionally giving Krebs the two-week suspension and not making
good on it.

   Her lawyers were seeking about $3.2 million in total damages,
but several jurors said they kept monetary awards considerably
lower largely out of concern that Krebs might be able to file
bankruptcy and avoid financial punishment if the awards were too
high.

   ``We wanted him to have some punishment,'' one of the women
jurors said.

   &QL; 
XXXX END OF STORY &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  (See optional trims) 
 
By PAUL McKAY 
c.1998 Houston Chronicle 

',
			paragraphs: '
   CONROE, Texas _ A former flight attendant, who claimed she was
sexually harassed by a Continental pilot who used a computer to
superimpose her face on the bodies of bikini-clad and nude women,
was awarded about $375,000 by a sympathetic jury Thursday.

   Amanda Butler, 27, of The Woodlands, obtained civil judgments
against the pilot, 44-year-old Rainer Krebs of nearby Seabrook, and
Continental Express _ a subsidiary of Houston-based Continental
Airlines _ in a lawsuit that required three days of deliberations
by eight men and four women on a Montgomery County jury.

   The Woodlands is an unincorporated community of 51,000 about 30
miles north of downtown Houston.

   Jurors found that Krebs, who lied in telling other airline
employees that Butler had posed nude for him, defamed Butler. She
was awarded $50,000 for damage to her reputation and character and
another $50,000 for mental anguish and humiliation.

   Jurors also hit Krebs with about $75,000 in damages for offenses
such as ``intentional infliction of emotional distress'' and
invasion of privacy.

   While clearing Continental Express of reckless indifference and
gross negligence, jurors found that the company was liable in the
amount of a $50,000 award to Butler for ``negligence in the
supervision, training or retaining of Rainer Krebs as an
employee.''

   Krebs was characterized by trial witnesses as a ``pervert'' and
described by one of the male jurors as ``a total pig.''

   Krebs, however, said he never anticipated that Butler would be
offended when, as a joke, he popped open a laptop computer in the
cockpit of a commuter plane and showed her the image of her face on
the body of a model from a page out of a Sports Illustrated
swimsuit edition.

   Other witnesses said they had seen or heard about the faces of
Butler and other flight attendants being superimposed on nude
pictures, but no evidence of nude imagery was presented in court.
Butler's lawyers argued that the evidence was destroyed by Krebs,
who according to testimony from a computer expert had used a
deletion device to erase images in his computer.

   There was no solid evidence to prove that Krebs had placed any
photographs of Butler on the Internet _ an issue that Butler said
was of great concern to her.

   Krebs said he had apologized to Butler almost immediately after
showing her the swimsuit picture. He denied allegations of any
other pictures of her or other attendants.

   &QL; 
(BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Butler's lawyers presented testimony from three other flight
attendants who had complained of run-ins with Krebs, including two
who claimed they had been sexually harassed by him. His lawyer,
Patrick Flynn, said the complaints stemmed from misunderstandings
or were intended as retribution because Krebs had reported the
women for procedural infractions.

   ``There has never been any sexual harassment intended by him,
and some of these complaints that were brought up involved stuff
that has to be stretched to make sexual harassment out of it,''
Flynn said.

   &QL; 
(END OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Butler resigned about three months after the May 12, 1996,
episode involving the swimsuit graphic. She has since obtained a
teaching certificate and accepted a job in the Conroe school
district as a high-school journalism teacher.

   Krebs is no longer employed by Continental Express, but is a
pilot for the larger parent company, Continental Airlines.

   &QL; 
(BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Airline officials said they were restricted in the discipline
they could mete out in response to the swimsuit picture because of
Krebs' union membership.

   ``They've tried to put blame on the union, but they never made
any effort to contact the union,'' said Rick Rutledge, Butler's
attorney.

   &QL; 
(END OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Butler received an additional $25,000 for compensatory damages
and $17,712 in back pay, along with about $96,000 for attorney
fees. All of the monetary awards were among the 15 legal rulings,
which were not all unanimous, that jurors had to make after almost
two weeks of trial.

   Ferrell Surette, a delivery driver of The Woodlands, said he
could not go along with other jurors because he considered Kreb's
actions as ``a joke.''

   ``I don't mean any offense to Amanda Butler; I understand that
it was offensive to her, but it was a joke and in my opinion it
shouldn't have come to this (litigation),'' Surette said.

   Others jurors agreed that the dispute did not necessarily belong
in the court system. But two of the four women jurors, who asked
not to be identified, said they and most of the other jurors agreed
that Krebs deserved some punishment and that Continental Express
had ``dropped the ball'' by docking Krebs two weeks of pay for the
computerized swimsuit incident and then not following through to
make sure the money was withheld.

   Butler's lawyers accused the company, whose officials claimed
that clerical errors were made in not withholding pay, of
intentionally giving Krebs the two-week suspension and not making
good on it.

   Her lawyers were seeking about $3.2 million in total damages,
but several jurors said they kept monetary awards considerably
lower largely out of concern that Krebs might be able to file
bankruptcy and avoid financial punishment if the awards were too
high.

   ``We wanted him to have some punishment,'' one of the women
jurors said.

   &QL; 
XXXX END OF STORY &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0302 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:24 ',
			header: '
A5408 &Cx1f; taf-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CAMPAIGN-FINANCE-470&AMP;     06-11 0620
',
			slug: ' BC-CAMPAIGN-FINANCE-470&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
HOUSE REJECTS AMENDMENT TO LIMIT CAMPAIGN SPENDING 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ In the first of what is likely to be a summer of
votes on campaign finance, the House on Thursday by a vote of
345-29 overwhelmingly rejected a proposed constitutional amendment
that would have given Congress and the states authority to set
campaign-spending limits.

   The constitutional amendment was drafted by Rep. Richard
Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, to find a way to
limit money in politics despite Supreme Court rulings that have
called spending limits, but not contribution limits,
unconstitutional.

   But it was Rep. Tom DeLay, the House's third-ranking Republican,
who sponsored the amendment in an effort to embarrass the Democrats
and underscore his own contention that the many campaign-finance
proposals before the House abridge constitutional guarantees of
free speech.

   Gephardt is seeking to rally Democrats around a different,
bipartisan bill that would ban unlimited, unregulated donations to
political parties.

   DeLay, a Texan, voted against his own proposal. Fifty-one
Democrats voted present.

   As has become the case since the House leadership, in what
looked like an about-face, agreed to allow a full floor fight on
the campaign-finance system, the debate on the constitutional
amendment was scheduled after an array of other bills. That pushed
the debate late into Wednesday night.

   The vote was delayed until Thursday because Democrats demanded a
roll call at about 10:30 p.m. That would have shown that few
lawmakers were still in the Capitol.

   ``The First Amendment is safe for now,'' DeLay said, ``but we
must be vigilant to stop other efforts by so-called reformers to
change and abridge the people's freedom of expression.''

   Several Democrats said that the same Republicans proclaiming the
sanctity of the Constitution had tried but failed last week to pass
an amendment that would have allowed organized prayer in schools.

   ``This is the first time in my memory that the gentleman has
been for free speech,'' Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., said of DeLay.

   At times on Wednesday, the debate turned pointed and personal.
Just before Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee, D-Texas, was to speak in favor
of changing the campaign-finance law, Rep. Scott McInnis, R-Colo.,
who opposes spending limits, tried to embarrass her by reading
aloud the campaign contributions she had received from the
political action committees of an array of labor unions. He said 58
percent of Ms. Jackson-Lee's contributions had come from political
action committees, and then enumerated them at length.

   ``I think this is very key,'' McInnis said. ``I think this is
disclosure.''

   Ms. Jackson-Lee, looking slightly flustered, replied that she
was ``glad to stand with the men and women of America, and
particularly the working men and women of America.''

   When Rep. Zach Wamp, R-Tenn., who has broken with his party to
embrace spending limits, said, ``I do not accept PAC money; I have
always kind of thought that was a bad thing,'' he was immediately
questioned by a Republican colleague, Rep. John Hostettler of
Indiana.

   ``As someone who has never received special-interest PAC money
in the history of his elections, I think it is important that the
gentleman makes it clear that the gentleman has in the past,''
Hostettler said in a challenge to Wamp. ``Is that not the case?''

   ``No,'' Wamp replied. ``I have not, did not. I have never
received PAC money.''
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: Mo., Texas, Mass., Colo., Tenn., Ind.)  (lb) 
 By ALISON MITCHELL   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ In the first of what is likely to be a summer of
votes on campaign finance, the House on Thursday by a vote of
345-29 overwhelmingly rejected a proposed constitutional amendment
that would have given Congress and the states authority to set
campaign-spending limits.

   The constitutional amendment was drafted by Rep. Richard
Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, to find a way to
limit money in politics despite Supreme Court rulings that have
called spending limits, but not contribution limits,
unconstitutional.

   But it was Rep. Tom DeLay, the House's third-ranking Republican,
who sponsored the amendment in an effort to embarrass the Democrats
and underscore his own contention that the many campaign-finance
proposals before the House abridge constitutional guarantees of
free speech.

   Gephardt is seeking to rally Democrats around a different,
bipartisan bill that would ban unlimited, unregulated donations to
political parties.

   DeLay, a Texan, voted against his own proposal. Fifty-one
Democrats voted present.

   As has become the case since the House leadership, in what
looked like an about-face, agreed to allow a full floor fight on
the campaign-finance system, the debate on the constitutional
amendment was scheduled after an array of other bills. That pushed
the debate late into Wednesday night.

   The vote was delayed until Thursday because Democrats demanded a
roll call at about 10:30 p.m. That would have shown that few
lawmakers were still in the Capitol.

   ``The First Amendment is safe for now,'' DeLay said, ``but we
must be vigilant to stop other efforts by so-called reformers to
change and abridge the people's freedom of expression.''

   Several Democrats said that the same Republicans proclaiming the
sanctity of the Constitution had tried but failed last week to pass
an amendment that would have allowed organized prayer in schools.

   ``This is the first time in my memory that the gentleman has
been for free speech,'' Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., said of DeLay.

   At times on Wednesday, the debate turned pointed and personal.
Just before Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee, D-Texas, was to speak in favor
of changing the campaign-finance law, Rep. Scott McInnis, R-Colo.,
who opposes spending limits, tried to embarrass her by reading
aloud the campaign contributions she had received from the
political action committees of an array of labor unions. He said 58
percent of Ms. Jackson-Lee's contributions had come from political
action committees, and then enumerated them at length.

   ``I think this is very key,'' McInnis said. ``I think this is
disclosure.''

   Ms. Jackson-Lee, looking slightly flustered, replied that she
was ``glad to stand with the men and women of America, and
particularly the working men and women of America.''

   When Rep. Zach Wamp, R-Tenn., who has broken with his party to
embrace spending limits, said, ``I do not accept PAC money; I have
always kind of thought that was a bad thing,'' he was immediately
questioned by a Republican colleague, Rep. John Hostettler of
Indiana.

   ``As someone who has never received special-interest PAC money
in the history of his elections, I think it is important that the
gentleman makes it clear that the gentleman has in the past,''
Hostettler said in a challenge to Wamp. ``Is that not the case?''

   ``No,'' Wamp replied. ``I have not, did not. I have never
received PAC money.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0303 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:24 ',
			header: '
A5410 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TOBACCO-SENATE-HNS &LR;      06-11 0793
',
			slug: ' BC-TOBACCO-SENATE-HNS ',
			headline: '
SENATE FAILS IN BID TO CAP TOBACCO ATTORNEYS' FEES 

',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Citing Texas and Florida as examples of where
attorneys grabbed too much money in tobacco settlements, a number
of Republican senators Thursday tried unsuccessfully to cap lawyers
fees in the national anti-smoking legislation.

   The amendment, which failed on a vote of 50-45, would have
limited fees for lawyers who have worked on state tobacco
settlement to $1,000 per hour plus expenses. The current
legislation provides for an arbitration panel to set legal fees.

   Opponents of the bill argued that the government should not be
in the business of determining lawyers' salaries, anymore than they
would limit compensation for corporate executives.

   ``When we start setting salaries that is going to be the end of
the free market system,'' said Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah.

   But the chief sponsor of the bill, Sen. Lauch Faircloth, R-N.C.,
said the limits were necessary to prevent attorneys from doing as
well as they did in the states that have reached settlements.

   He said lawyers in Florida negotiated agreements that amounted
to $185,000-an-hour fees for lawyers. In Texas, he said the figure
was $92,000 an hour.

   ``If there ever were fees that were unethical and excessive
these are it,'' he said.

   &QL; 
(BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   In the Texas settlement negotiated by Attorney General Dan
Morales, attorneys received $2.3 billion in fees for their work on
the $15 billion agreement. Texas Gov. George W. Bush and a number
of state lawmakers have challenged the attorneys fees in court.

   &QL; 
(END OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   The debate Thursday was the second try for proponents of
limiting lawyers` fees. Earlier they tried to cap compensation at
$250 an hour, a proposal that was soundly defeated.

   The debate featured a heavy dose of bashing for trial lawyers, a
group whom many Republicans regard suspiciously because they donate
heavily to Democratic political candidates.

   A recent Common Cause study revealed that trial lawyers gave
$962,000, to Democrats in 1997, while contributing only $30,000 to
Republicans. Conversely, tobacco companies donated $2.5 million to
the GOP in the same year, while giving $549,000 to Democrats.

   Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, called plaintiff lawyers ``vultures''
whose actions are ``predatory and outrageous.''

   &QL; 
(BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Both Gramm and Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, voted to cap
the legal fees.

   &QL; 
(END OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Proponents of the cap made a point of noting that Hugh Rodham,
brother of the first lady, was one of the lawyers in the Florida
case, but they did not mention that Senate Republican Leader Trent
Lott's brother-in-law, Richard Scruggs, was also a plaintiff's
attorney in Mississippi, where the movement to sue tobacco
companies to recoup costs of treating tobacco-related illnesses got
started.

   &QL; 
(BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Charles Silver, a University of Texas law professor who is part
of the legal team in the Texas settlement, said that it was strange
that conservatives such as Gramm would be advocating wage controls.

   ``I thought these guys were free marketeers ... Phil Gramm,
Socialist? That doesn't ring well,'' Silver said.

   He also took issue with Gramm's characterization of the
attorneys, saying ``these vultures are people who just enriched the
state of Texas by $15 billion.''

   &QL; 
(END OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   A spokesman for Faircloth said the fee limit would not have
applied to states that have reached agreements such as Texas.
However, the actual language of the bill appeared to contradict
that claim. It stated that the fee limits would apply to attorneys
who ``acted on behalf of a state or political subdivision of a
state in connection with any past litigation of an action
maintained by a state against one or more tobacco companies to
recover tobacco related expenses.''

   The vote on legal fees came as senators were close to completing
three weeks of debate on the ambitious and controversial tobacco
bill.

   The measure would raise cigarette taxes by $1.10 a pack and
impose federal regulations on tobacco products. This week the
Senate also tacked on a tax cut for married couples that would be
paid for by revenue generated from the tobacco price increase.

   And on Thursday the Senate also approved an amendment that would
allocate some of the tobacco money for state day-care efforts.

   The bill's sponsor, Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., indicated that
the time was approaching when the Senate should conclude debate on
the legislation.

   &QL; 
XXXX END OF STORY &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  (See optional trims) 
 
By BENNETT ROTH 
c.1998 Houston Chronicle 

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Citing Texas and Florida as examples of where
attorneys grabbed too much money in tobacco settlements, a number
of Republican senators Thursday tried unsuccessfully to cap lawyers
fees in the national anti-smoking legislation.

   The amendment, which failed on a vote of 50-45, would have
limited fees for lawyers who have worked on state tobacco
settlement to $1,000 per hour plus expenses. The current
legislation provides for an arbitration panel to set legal fees.

   Opponents of the bill argued that the government should not be
in the business of determining lawyers' salaries, anymore than they
would limit compensation for corporate executives.

   ``When we start setting salaries that is going to be the end of
the free market system,'' said Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah.

   But the chief sponsor of the bill, Sen. Lauch Faircloth, R-N.C.,
said the limits were necessary to prevent attorneys from doing as
well as they did in the states that have reached settlements.

   He said lawyers in Florida negotiated agreements that amounted
to $185,000-an-hour fees for lawyers. In Texas, he said the figure
was $92,000 an hour.

   ``If there ever were fees that were unethical and excessive
these are it,'' he said.

   &QL; 
(BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   In the Texas settlement negotiated by Attorney General Dan
Morales, attorneys received $2.3 billion in fees for their work on
the $15 billion agreement. Texas Gov. George W. Bush and a number
of state lawmakers have challenged the attorneys fees in court.

   &QL; 
(END OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   The debate Thursday was the second try for proponents of
limiting lawyers` fees. Earlier they tried to cap compensation at
$250 an hour, a proposal that was soundly defeated.

   The debate featured a heavy dose of bashing for trial lawyers, a
group whom many Republicans regard suspiciously because they donate
heavily to Democratic political candidates.

   A recent Common Cause study revealed that trial lawyers gave
$962,000, to Democrats in 1997, while contributing only $30,000 to
Republicans. Conversely, tobacco companies donated $2.5 million to
the GOP in the same year, while giving $549,000 to Democrats.

   Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, called plaintiff lawyers ``vultures''
whose actions are ``predatory and outrageous.''

   &QL; 
(BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Both Gramm and Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, voted to cap
the legal fees.

   &QL; 
(END OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Proponents of the cap made a point of noting that Hugh Rodham,
brother of the first lady, was one of the lawyers in the Florida
case, but they did not mention that Senate Republican Leader Trent
Lott's brother-in-law, Richard Scruggs, was also a plaintiff's
attorney in Mississippi, where the movement to sue tobacco
companies to recoup costs of treating tobacco-related illnesses got
started.

   &QL; 
(BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   Charles Silver, a University of Texas law professor who is part
of the legal team in the Texas settlement, said that it was strange
that conservatives such as Gramm would be advocating wage controls.

   ``I thought these guys were free marketeers ... Phil Gramm,
Socialist? That doesn't ring well,'' Silver said.

   He also took issue with Gramm's characterization of the
attorneys, saying ``these vultures are people who just enriched the
state of Texas by $15 billion.''

   &QL; 
(END OPTIONAL TRIM) &QL; 
 &QL;

   A spokesman for Faircloth said the fee limit would not have
applied to states that have reached agreements such as Texas.
However, the actual language of the bill appeared to contradict
that claim. It stated that the fee limits would apply to attorneys
who ``acted on behalf of a state or political subdivision of a
state in connection with any past litigation of an action
maintained by a state against one or more tobacco companies to
recover tobacco related expenses.''

   The vote on legal fees came as senators were close to completing
three weeks of debate on the ambitious and controversial tobacco
bill.

   The measure would raise cigarette taxes by $1.10 a pack and
impose federal regulations on tobacco products. This week the
Senate also tacked on a tax cut for married couples that would be
paid for by revenue generated from the tobacco price increase.

   And on Thursday the Senate also approved an amendment that would
allocate some of the tobacco money for state day-care efforts.

   The bill's sponsor, Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., indicated that
the time was approaching when the Senate should conclude debate on
the legislation.

   &QL; 
XXXX END OF STORY &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0304 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:26 ',
			header: '
A5412 &Cx1f; taf-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-IRAN-POLITICS-NYT &LR;      06-11 0847
',
			slug: ' BC-IRAN-POLITICS-NYT ',
			headline: '
TEHRAN MAYOR'S TRIAL BEGINS, AND STRAINS ARE SHOWING
',
			trailer: '
   CAIRO, Egypt _ The start of a public trial of the mayor of
Tehran appears to have turned up the political temperature in Iran
at a time when strains between conservatives and moderates there
are on increasingly vivid display.

   The mayor, Gholamhossein Karabaschi, is a close ally of the
President Mohammad Khatami, a relative moderate, and his two days
of testimony in response to corruption charges against him have
already been marked by angry exchanges with a judge who represents
the country's more conservative judiciary.

   And since the trial began on Tuesday, the conservatives in Iran
have set their sights on two other prominent targets. One group has
begun an effort to impeach Khatami's interior minister, and another
has persuaded a court to order the closing of a bold new newspaper
sympathetic to Khatami. The actions, which could set the stage for
new political showdowns, come less than two months after Iran's
leaders averted one potential clash by agreeing on a plan that
freed the popular mayor from prison after 11 days behind bars.

   Karabaschi, 45, has vigorously denied the charges, which have
been widely seen in Iran as part of an effort by conservatives who
have held power since the Islamic revolution of 1979 to stave off
the political challenge posed by Khatami's landslide election
victory a year ago. Judicial officials have charged Karabaschi with
crimes including the embezzlement of nearly $5 million, receiving
bribes and illegal conduct in government transactions. They have
insisted that their accusations are solidly grounded in fact.

   Khatami's Cabinet itself has declared the charges unfounded, and
reports from Tehran said the government spokesman, Ataollah
Mohajerani, was among 500 spectators who listened to more than
three hours of testimony inside a wood-paneled auditorium that is
serving as a makeshift court.

   In April, the public passions fueled by Karabaschi's arrest had
begun to spill over into street protests before Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, ordered the country's judiciary
chief to free the Mayor on parole. Iranian officials have said the
decision was made at Khatami's urging, and some among them,
including former President Hashemi Rafsanjani, have left little
doubt of their view that the episode was a dangerous one.

   But the stopgap arrangement has done little to heal the rivalry
between conservatives who see Khatami and his supporters as a
threat and moderates who see the country's unelected old guard as
blocking a mandate to infuse the 19-year-old Islamic republic with
greater tolerance.

   And with the mayor's case now back in public light _ parts of
the proceedings have been broadcast on state-run television _
reporters and diplomats in Tehran say the differences can once
again be seen in sharp relief.

   Outside the courtroom Thursday, they said, several dozen
hard-line conservatives chanted slogans including ``Death to
Karabaschi'' and ``Looters of the public property should be
executed.'' But inside, Karabaschi, who has governed the capital of
10 million people for the last nine years, has been blunt in
questioning the competence of the Shiite Muslim cleric who is
serving as both judge and prosecutor in the case.

   There is no direct link between the case involving the mayor and
the other campaigns by conservatives, including the call on
Wednesday by 31 members of Parliament for the dismissal of the
interior minister, Abdollah Nouri, and the effort to close down the
new newspaper, Jomeah. But Nouri has angered conservatives, in part
by defiantly supporting Karabaschi even during the time that he was
jailed. The interior minister has also faced criticism from
conservatives for granting student groups and other organizations
permission to hold anti-conservative rallies across Iran.

   Although the full 270 members of Parliament would have to debate
an impeachment motion before further steps are taken, the official
Iranian news agency quoted Khatami this week as defending the
minister as ``an outstanding personality of the revolution.''

   The newspaper, Jomeah, was founded only several months ago but
has quickly emerged as perhaps the most daring and popular voice in
what has become a highly politicized Iranian press. But in ordering
its closure on Wednesday, an Iranian court appeared to have
accepted complaints by the newspaper's conservative opponents that
its reporting has been reckless on several occasions.

   The critics had accused the newspaper of having ``distorted''
remarks made to a private audience by Brig. Gen. Rahim Safavi, the
commander of Iran's Revolutionary Guard, who was quoted as saying
he wanted to ``cut the necks and tongues'' of political opponents.

   The newspaper's editors said Thursday that they had appealed the
ruling, which revoked Jomeah's license for one year. They said they
intended to continue publishing until the appeal is heard.
',
			body: '


   (ja) 
 BY DOUGLAS JEHL   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   CAIRO, Egypt _ The start of a public trial of the mayor of
Tehran appears to have turned up the political temperature in Iran
at a time when strains between conservatives and moderates there
are on increasingly vivid display.

   The mayor, Gholamhossein Karabaschi, is a close ally of the
President Mohammad Khatami, a relative moderate, and his two days
of testimony in response to corruption charges against him have
already been marked by angry exchanges with a judge who represents
the country's more conservative judiciary.

   And since the trial began on Tuesday, the conservatives in Iran
have set their sights on two other prominent targets. One group has
begun an effort to impeach Khatami's interior minister, and another
has persuaded a court to order the closing of a bold new newspaper
sympathetic to Khatami. The actions, which could set the stage for
new political showdowns, come less than two months after Iran's
leaders averted one potential clash by agreeing on a plan that
freed the popular mayor from prison after 11 days behind bars.

   Karabaschi, 45, has vigorously denied the charges, which have
been widely seen in Iran as part of an effort by conservatives who
have held power since the Islamic revolution of 1979 to stave off
the political challenge posed by Khatami's landslide election
victory a year ago. Judicial officials have charged Karabaschi with
crimes including the embezzlement of nearly $5 million, receiving
bribes and illegal conduct in government transactions. They have
insisted that their accusations are solidly grounded in fact.

   Khatami's Cabinet itself has declared the charges unfounded, and
reports from Tehran said the government spokesman, Ataollah
Mohajerani, was among 500 spectators who listened to more than
three hours of testimony inside a wood-paneled auditorium that is
serving as a makeshift court.

   In April, the public passions fueled by Karabaschi's arrest had
begun to spill over into street protests before Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, ordered the country's judiciary
chief to free the Mayor on parole. Iranian officials have said the
decision was made at Khatami's urging, and some among them,
including former President Hashemi Rafsanjani, have left little
doubt of their view that the episode was a dangerous one.

   But the stopgap arrangement has done little to heal the rivalry
between conservatives who see Khatami and his supporters as a
threat and moderates who see the country's unelected old guard as
blocking a mandate to infuse the 19-year-old Islamic republic with
greater tolerance.

   And with the mayor's case now back in public light _ parts of
the proceedings have been broadcast on state-run television _
reporters and diplomats in Tehran say the differences can once
again be seen in sharp relief.

   Outside the courtroom Thursday, they said, several dozen
hard-line conservatives chanted slogans including ``Death to
Karabaschi'' and ``Looters of the public property should be
executed.'' But inside, Karabaschi, who has governed the capital of
10 million people for the last nine years, has been blunt in
questioning the competence of the Shiite Muslim cleric who is
serving as both judge and prosecutor in the case.

   There is no direct link between the case involving the mayor and
the other campaigns by conservatives, including the call on
Wednesday by 31 members of Parliament for the dismissal of the
interior minister, Abdollah Nouri, and the effort to close down the
new newspaper, Jomeah. But Nouri has angered conservatives, in part
by defiantly supporting Karabaschi even during the time that he was
jailed. The interior minister has also faced criticism from
conservatives for granting student groups and other organizations
permission to hold anti-conservative rallies across Iran.

   Although the full 270 members of Parliament would have to debate
an impeachment motion before further steps are taken, the official
Iranian news agency quoted Khatami this week as defending the
minister as ``an outstanding personality of the revolution.''

   The newspaper, Jomeah, was founded only several months ago but
has quickly emerged as perhaps the most daring and popular voice in
what has become a highly politicized Iranian press. But in ordering
its closure on Wednesday, an Iranian court appeared to have
accepted complaints by the newspaper's conservative opponents that
its reporting has been reckless on several occasions.

   The critics had accused the newspaper of having ``distorted''
remarks made to a private audience by Brig. Gen. Rahim Safavi, the
commander of Iran's Revolutionary Guard, who was quoted as saying
he wanted to ``cut the necks and tongues'' of political opponents.

   The newspaper's editors said Thursday that they had appealed the
ruling, which revoked Jomeah's license for one year. They said they
intended to continue publishing until the appeal is heard.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0305 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:32 ',
			header: '
A5417 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLAC     06-11 0592
',
			slug: ' BC-ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE-ART-525(2TAKES)-NYT ',
			headline: '
MARKET PLACE: COLD, EFFICIENT SCREENS THREATEN TRADITIONAL `OUTCRY'
TRADING 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ In Chicago, New York, Philadelphia and even London,
the prices of seats on major financial exchanges have plummeted 10,
15, 20, even 40 percent in the last few months. &QL;

   At the Chicago Board of Trade, the world's biggest futures
exchange, a membership seat sold for $495,000 this week, down 42
percent from a record $857,500 earlier this year. At the New York
Stock Exchange, a seat sold a few weeks ago for $1.35 million, down
from a record $2 million in February. &QL;

   What's behind the declining value of membership in these
hallowed financial enclaves? Consolidation among exchanges,
languishing stock prices and falling commodity prices, which if
persistent could foreshadow a decline in future trading volume, are
among the factors pushing down seat prices _ sometimes viewed as an
indicator of market sentiment.

   But perhaps the biggest concern is the rise of electronic
trading, which poses a threat to all the traditional exchanges,
where traders still gesticulate on a trading floor and lose
themselves in hand signals and wads of paper.

   ``There's no question seat prices are falling across North
America and Europe,'' said Patrick Arbor, chairman of the Chicago
Board of Trade. ``The specter of electronic trading is hovering
over the industry like a black cloud.''

   Arbor does not see an end to traditional, or ``open outcry''
trading, noting that volume on most major exchanges is booming. He
and officials at other exchanges say they expect electronic trading
to coexist with the old-fashioned auction markets.

   Still, traders are closely following the planned introduction
this summer of an electronic futures exchange, which would go head
to head with the Chicago Board of Trade, and which could show just
how willing people are to make the shift to electronic
transactions.

   Meanwhile, electronic trading is winning converts in London,
Paris and Frankfurt, Germany, and many of the exchanges there are
preparing to install their electronic systems at U.S. exchanges,
which have also begun to experiment with electronic trading.

   Nervousness about the future has spread to a majority of the big
exchanges. Along with dips at the Big Board and the Board of Trade,
seat prices are down 38 percent from their recent all-time highs on
the Pacific Stock Exchange in San Francisco and 41 percent on the
Chicago Board Options Exchange, despite explosive growth in the
trading of stocks and other financial instruments.

   Though seat prices tend to be volatile, such rapid drops are
unusual absent a sharp decline in the performance of the financial
markets. The recent drop in seat prices on the Big Board, for
example, is the largest since the nearly 50 percent decline after
the 1987 stock market crash.

   Fears about the demise of the traditional exchange have been
voiced before. In the 1970s, when the Nasdaq stock market came into
being as an electronic stock exchange, there were worries that
floor trading at the Big Board would disappear. Yet more than two
decades later, that floor remains vibrant, albeit with more
electronic circuitry and greater competition from Nasdaq.

   nn

   One reason for renewed concern by some smaller exchanges is the
consolidation among the big guys. In March, the National
Association of Securities Dealers, which operates the Nasdaq stock
market, said it would merge with the American Stock Exchange. And
this week the American Stock Exchange signed a pact to merge with
the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. &QL;

   In addition, the Board of Trade of New York _ created this week
by the merger of the New York Cotton Exchange with the Coffee,
Sugar and Cocoa Exchange _ is working with Cantor Fitzgerald, a
Wall Street brokerage house, to form an electronic futures
exchange, the Cantor Financial Futures Exchange. They hope to begin
operations this summer, pending approval from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.

   The Chicago Board of Trade is challenging the application,
citing, among other concerns, a potential conflict of interest
since Cantor, in operating an exchange, would be acting as both
principal and agent in futures transactions.

   But the Board of Trade is also grappling with its own venture
into electronic trading. This week, the board said it would
consider a public stock offering for its after-hours electronic
trading system in an attempt to bolster the value of its
memberships while raising money for technology improvements.

   Because of the increasingly global nature of securities markets,
U.S. exchanges cannot afford to ignore changes abroad. An important
sign of what lies ahead may be seen in Europe. The Matif, the
French futures exchange, introduced electronic trading alongside
its floor trading last April. Volume soared in the electronic
arena, while floor trading plummeted. Last week, the Matif
abolished the open outcry system and decided to go entirely
electronic. &QL;

   In Germany, the DTB, or Deutsche Terminborse, an electronic
futures exchange, has recently captured market share from Europe's
largest futures exchange, the London International Financial
Futures and Options Exchange, which is primarily an auction market
with hundreds of traders. &QL;

   After a barrage of criticism, the Liffe, as it is known, voted
overwhelmingly this week to speed up plans to introduce an
electronic trading system to operate alongside its open outcry
system. Already, many traders in London have begun looking for a
new livelihood. &QL;

   ``There's an enormous revolution going on in the financial
services industry,'' Jack Wigglesworth, the chairman of Liffe,
said. ``The question is whether you'll even need exchanges in the
next century.'' &QL;

   Although many industry analysts insist that there is now no
trading system as good as open outcry, often hailed for its
fairness because transactions are conducted for all to see, most of
the world's financial exchanges are moving to upgrade their
technology. And for the time, the U.S. exchanges _ which talk about
being well positioned to make a transition _ are betting on a world
that is cohabited by auction traders and electronic trading.  &QL;

   ``Our goal is to add more automation to the floor, but not do
everything on screen,'' said William Brodsky, chairman of the
Chicago Board Options Exchange. ``There's no denying the
significance and the rapid march of technology. But if you stay
ahead of the curve, you'll succeed.'' &QL;

   Privately, though, several analysts say the exchanges are
worried not only about the future of ``open outcry'' trading, but
about their very existence amid growing competition from so-called
third markets, or electronic commerce networks, which match a buyer
and a seller independently. Examples of such services are Instinet
and Island. &QL;

   Daniel Rappaport, chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange,
which trades heavily in energy and metal futures, said: ``I think
it's incumbent upon the exchanges to create a system that can
compete with the electronic. Now, all of a sudden, the crunch is
on.''
',
			body: '


  (ART ADV: Graphic is made available to NYT graphic clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or -1927.) 
(ja) 
 By DAVID BARBOZA    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ In Chicago, New York, Philadelphia and even London,
the prices of seats on major financial exchanges have plummeted 10,
15, 20, even 40 percent in the last few months. &QL;

   At the Chicago Board of Trade, the world's biggest futures
exchange, a membership seat sold for $495,000 this week, down 42
percent from a record $857,500 earlier this year. At the New York
Stock Exchange, a seat sold a few weeks ago for $1.35 million, down
from a record $2 million in February. &QL;

   What's behind the declining value of membership in these
hallowed financial enclaves? Consolidation among exchanges,
languishing stock prices and falling commodity prices, which if
persistent could foreshadow a decline in future trading volume, are
among the factors pushing down seat prices _ sometimes viewed as an
indicator of market sentiment.

   But perhaps the biggest concern is the rise of electronic
trading, which poses a threat to all the traditional exchanges,
where traders still gesticulate on a trading floor and lose
themselves in hand signals and wads of paper.

   ``There's no question seat prices are falling across North
America and Europe,'' said Patrick Arbor, chairman of the Chicago
Board of Trade. ``The specter of electronic trading is hovering
over the industry like a black cloud.''

   Arbor does not see an end to traditional, or ``open outcry''
trading, noting that volume on most major exchanges is booming. He
and officials at other exchanges say they expect electronic trading
to coexist with the old-fashioned auction markets.

   Still, traders are closely following the planned introduction
this summer of an electronic futures exchange, which would go head
to head with the Chicago Board of Trade, and which could show just
how willing people are to make the shift to electronic
transactions.

   Meanwhile, electronic trading is winning converts in London,
Paris and Frankfurt, Germany, and many of the exchanges there are
preparing to install their electronic systems at U.S. exchanges,
which have also begun to experiment with electronic trading.

   Nervousness about the future has spread to a majority of the big
exchanges. Along with dips at the Big Board and the Board of Trade,
seat prices are down 38 percent from their recent all-time highs on
the Pacific Stock Exchange in San Francisco and 41 percent on the
Chicago Board Options Exchange, despite explosive growth in the
trading of stocks and other financial instruments.

   Though seat prices tend to be volatile, such rapid drops are
unusual absent a sharp decline in the performance of the financial
markets. The recent drop in seat prices on the Big Board, for
example, is the largest since the nearly 50 percent decline after
the 1987 stock market crash.

   Fears about the demise of the traditional exchange have been
voiced before. In the 1970s, when the Nasdaq stock market came into
being as an electronic stock exchange, there were worries that
floor trading at the Big Board would disappear. Yet more than two
decades later, that floor remains vibrant, albeit with more
electronic circuitry and greater competition from Nasdaq.

   nn

   One reason for renewed concern by some smaller exchanges is the
consolidation among the big guys. In March, the National
Association of Securities Dealers, which operates the Nasdaq stock
market, said it would merge with the American Stock Exchange. And
this week the American Stock Exchange signed a pact to merge with
the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. &QL;

   In addition, the Board of Trade of New York _ created this week
by the merger of the New York Cotton Exchange with the Coffee,
Sugar and Cocoa Exchange _ is working with Cantor Fitzgerald, a
Wall Street brokerage house, to form an electronic futures
exchange, the Cantor Financial Futures Exchange. They hope to begin
operations this summer, pending approval from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.

   The Chicago Board of Trade is challenging the application,
citing, among other concerns, a potential conflict of interest
since Cantor, in operating an exchange, would be acting as both
principal and agent in futures transactions.

   But the Board of Trade is also grappling with its own venture
into electronic trading. This week, the board said it would
consider a public stock offering for its after-hours electronic
trading system in an attempt to bolster the value of its
memberships while raising money for technology improvements.

   Because of the increasingly global nature of securities markets,
U.S. exchanges cannot afford to ignore changes abroad. An important
sign of what lies ahead may be seen in Europe. The Matif, the
French futures exchange, introduced electronic trading alongside
its floor trading last April. Volume soared in the electronic
arena, while floor trading plummeted. Last week, the Matif
abolished the open outcry system and decided to go entirely
electronic. &QL;

   In Germany, the DTB, or Deutsche Terminborse, an electronic
futures exchange, has recently captured market share from Europe's
largest futures exchange, the London International Financial
Futures and Options Exchange, which is primarily an auction market
with hundreds of traders. &QL;

   After a barrage of criticism, the Liffe, as it is known, voted
overwhelmingly this week to speed up plans to introduce an
electronic trading system to operate alongside its open outcry
system. Already, many traders in London have begun looking for a
new livelihood. &QL;

   ``There's an enormous revolution going on in the financial
services industry,'' Jack Wigglesworth, the chairman of Liffe,
said. ``The question is whether you'll even need exchanges in the
next century.'' &QL;

   Although many industry analysts insist that there is now no
trading system as good as open outcry, often hailed for its
fairness because transactions are conducted for all to see, most of
the world's financial exchanges are moving to upgrade their
technology. And for the time, the U.S. exchanges _ which talk about
being well positioned to make a transition _ are betting on a world
that is cohabited by auction traders and electronic trading.  &QL;

   ``Our goal is to add more automation to the floor, but not do
everything on screen,'' said William Brodsky, chairman of the
Chicago Board Options Exchange. ``There's no denying the
significance and the rapid march of technology. But if you stay
ahead of the curve, you'll succeed.'' &QL;

   Privately, though, several analysts say the exchanges are
worried not only about the future of ``open outcry'' trading, but
about their very existence amid growing competition from so-called
third markets, or electronic commerce networks, which match a buyer
and a seller independently. Examples of such services are Instinet
and Island. &QL;

   Daniel Rappaport, chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange,
which trades heavily in energy and metal futures, said: ``I think
it's incumbent upon the exchanges to create a system that can
compete with the electronic. Now, all of a sudden, the crunch is
on.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0307 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:32 ',
			header: '
A5419 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ELIMINATE-CREDIT-NYT &LR;      06-11 0032
',
			slug: ' BC-ELIMINATE-CREDIT-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   (pr) &QL;

   &UR; EDITORS: &LR;

   CREDIT (New York) will not move in tonight's New York Times News
Service file.

   N.Y.Times News Service, June 11.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   (pr) &QL;

   &UR; EDITORS: &LR;

   CREDIT (New York) will not move in tonight's New York Times News
Service file.

   N.Y.Times News Service, June 11.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0308 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:34 ',
			header: '
A5424 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MARKET-NYT &LR;      06-11 0789
',
			slug: ' BC-MARKET-NYT ',
			headline: '
STOCKS FALL SHARPLY, JARRED BY ASIA CRISIS 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Stock prices tumbled Thursday even as government bond
yields fell to their lowest level in more than 20 years. The Dow
Jones industrial average plunged almost 160 points.

   The disjunction of the two markets, which have normally moved in
the same direction in recent years, is a result of the disquieting
impact of the economic turmoil in Asia, where stock markets and
currencies fell once again Thursday. The deepening problems in
Russia are also playing a role.

   Asia's problems are also influencing other markets. Japan's
inability to right its economy, combined with comments from
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin sent the dollar close to an
eight-year high against the yen. And both the stronger dollar and
Asia's weakening demand helped send an important commodity index to
its lowest level in five years as oil prices fell more than 5
percent.

   ``There's a big part of the world much deeper in financial
crisis,'' said Richard Hoey, the chief investment officer at
Dreyfus Corp.

   Robert DiClemente, the chief U.S. economist at Salomon Smith
Barney, called it ``the most complicated environment I have ever
had to analyze.''

   The bond market is benefiting from the rush of foreign investors
looking for a haven for their money. The stock market is suffering
from worries about earnings that could be undermined by both slower
sales in Asia and the price cutting forced by the competition from
lower-cost products from Asia that are now cheaper because of big
declines in currency values across Asia.

   The fall of stocks Thursday, on top of the decline Wednesday,
left several of the major indexes just points above their recent
lows. The Russell index of 2,000 smaller company stocks dropped
6.73 points, or 1.5 percent, to its lowest level since February. It
is now off 9.6 percent since its record high in April.

   The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 159.93 points, or 1.8
percent, to 8,811.77, off 4.3 percent since its May high, while the
Standard &AMP; Poor's index of 500 stocks fell 17.70 points, or 1.6
percent, to 1,094.58., down 3.2 percent since its April high. The
Nasdaq index finished 23.50 points, or 1.3 percent lower, at
1,749.75, off 8.8 percent from its recent high.

   The price of the 30-year bond rose 23/32, to 106 25/32, while
the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 5.65
percent, from 5.70 percent Wednesday and below the previous closing
low of 5.69 percent Jan. 12. This is the lowest yield on the
30-year bond since it was first issued regularly in 1977, and
analysts say that 30-year corporate bond yields are now at their
lowest levels in about 30 years.

   ``The focus is international,'' said Matthew Alexy, the chief
market strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston. ``The thing to
watch here is the flow of funds from abroad.''

   The bond market also got a big boost Thursday from Rubin, whose
congressional testimony early in the day was interpreted by traders
as indicating that the United States was not willing to step in to
help slow or stop the fall of the rapidly weakening Japanese yen.

   Although Rubin amended his remarks later, the dollar jumped 1.7
percent against the yen to 143.79, as traders took his comments as
an invitation to sell yen. Many of the dollars they got went into
notes and bonds, pushing prices higher.

   Thomas Galvin, the chief investment officer at Donaldson, Lufkin
&AMP; Jenrette, said Rubin's remarks might have jarred some investors
who feared a spiraling crisis. But he said that in the end the
long-term stability and success of Japan were dependent on how
Japanese officials handled the crisis. Intervention can only have a
temporary impact, he said.

   Hoey of Dreyfus said that a weakening yen could force China to
devalue its currency and the Hong Kong dollar, which is pegged to
the U.S. dollar, and that would touch off another round of
devaluations in that part of the world. The result for investors in
U.S. equities could be dire, he said.

   A stronger dollar would mean higher-priced exports, pushing down
demand, and lower profits abroad when sales are translated back
into dollars. The stronger dollar also makes imports cheaper and
cuts into U.S. profit margins.

   Weakening Asian demand may also depress global oil prices, which
have already been falling sharply. This may be good for consumers,
but already troubled economies, like Russia's, that depend on oil
revenues will have more difficulty recovering. Oil for July
delivery dropped 73 cents a barrel Thursday on the New York
Mercantile Exchange to $12.75, nearing a 10-year low.
',
			body: '


   (bl)  
 By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Stock prices tumbled Thursday even as government bond
yields fell to their lowest level in more than 20 years. The Dow
Jones industrial average plunged almost 160 points.

   The disjunction of the two markets, which have normally moved in
the same direction in recent years, is a result of the disquieting
impact of the economic turmoil in Asia, where stock markets and
currencies fell once again Thursday. The deepening problems in
Russia are also playing a role.

   Asia's problems are also influencing other markets. Japan's
inability to right its economy, combined with comments from
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin sent the dollar close to an
eight-year high against the yen. And both the stronger dollar and
Asia's weakening demand helped send an important commodity index to
its lowest level in five years as oil prices fell more than 5
percent.

   ``There's a big part of the world much deeper in financial
crisis,'' said Richard Hoey, the chief investment officer at
Dreyfus Corp.

   Robert DiClemente, the chief U.S. economist at Salomon Smith
Barney, called it ``the most complicated environment I have ever
had to analyze.''

   The bond market is benefiting from the rush of foreign investors
looking for a haven for their money. The stock market is suffering
from worries about earnings that could be undermined by both slower
sales in Asia and the price cutting forced by the competition from
lower-cost products from Asia that are now cheaper because of big
declines in currency values across Asia.

   The fall of stocks Thursday, on top of the decline Wednesday,
left several of the major indexes just points above their recent
lows. The Russell index of 2,000 smaller company stocks dropped
6.73 points, or 1.5 percent, to its lowest level since February. It
is now off 9.6 percent since its record high in April.

   The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 159.93 points, or 1.8
percent, to 8,811.77, off 4.3 percent since its May high, while the
Standard &AMP; Poor's index of 500 stocks fell 17.70 points, or 1.6
percent, to 1,094.58., down 3.2 percent since its April high. The
Nasdaq index finished 23.50 points, or 1.3 percent lower, at
1,749.75, off 8.8 percent from its recent high.

   The price of the 30-year bond rose 23/32, to 106 25/32, while
the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 5.65
percent, from 5.70 percent Wednesday and below the previous closing
low of 5.69 percent Jan. 12. This is the lowest yield on the
30-year bond since it was first issued regularly in 1977, and
analysts say that 30-year corporate bond yields are now at their
lowest levels in about 30 years.

   ``The focus is international,'' said Matthew Alexy, the chief
market strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston. ``The thing to
watch here is the flow of funds from abroad.''

   The bond market also got a big boost Thursday from Rubin, whose
congressional testimony early in the day was interpreted by traders
as indicating that the United States was not willing to step in to
help slow or stop the fall of the rapidly weakening Japanese yen.

   Although Rubin amended his remarks later, the dollar jumped 1.7
percent against the yen to 143.79, as traders took his comments as
an invitation to sell yen. Many of the dollars they got went into
notes and bonds, pushing prices higher.

   Thomas Galvin, the chief investment officer at Donaldson, Lufkin
&AMP; Jenrette, said Rubin's remarks might have jarred some investors
who feared a spiraling crisis. But he said that in the end the
long-term stability and success of Japan were dependent on how
Japanese officials handled the crisis. Intervention can only have a
temporary impact, he said.

   Hoey of Dreyfus said that a weakening yen could force China to
devalue its currency and the Hong Kong dollar, which is pegged to
the U.S. dollar, and that would touch off another round of
devaluations in that part of the world. The result for investors in
U.S. equities could be dire, he said.

   A stronger dollar would mean higher-priced exports, pushing down
demand, and lower profits abroad when sales are translated back
into dollars. The stronger dollar also makes imports cheaper and
cuts into U.S. profit margins.

   Weakening Asian demand may also depress global oil prices, which
have already been falling sharply. This may be good for consumers,
but already troubled economies, like Russia's, that depend on oil
revenues will have more difficulty recovering. Oil for July
delivery dropped 73 cents a barrel Thursday on the New York
Mercantile Exchange to $12.75, nearing a 10-year low.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0309 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:37 ',
			header: '
A5427 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SCI-BRAIN-EVOLUTION-N     06-11 0829
',
			slug: ' BC-SCI-BRAIN-EVOLUTION-NYT ',
			headline: '
REPORT CASTS DOUBT ON BRAIN SIZES OF EARLY HOMINIDS
',
			trailer: '
   What is your exact height and weight? Anyone who even thinks of
tacking an extra half-inch onto one or shaving a pound or two from
the other can imagine the temptation felt by scientists when they
make measurements that affect a favorite theory.

   Though researchers are trained to resist such biases, conscious
and unconscious, a new measurement of an early hominid skull
suggests that, for whatever reason, the brain sizes of many human
ancestors were overestimated.

   Reducing the brain size of many early hominids, experts said,
could force serious revision in ideas about the evolution of the
human brain.

   The brain capacity of fossil hominids can be hard to measure
because the skulls are often crushed or incomplete. Researchers
sometimes take casts of the interior, filling in the missing
fragments with plasticine. The amount of water displaced by the
cast gives a measure of the brain's volume. Another method, used
for more than a century, is to pack the skull with mustard seeds,
which are then measured in a graduated flask.

   But these venerable techniques seem to have allowed room for
unconscious bias. Dr. Glenn Conroy, an anthropologist at the
Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, reports in
Friday's issue of Science that he has measured the skull capacity
of a 2.8-million-year-old hominid with a CAT scanner, a
computer-aided medical imaging device. The CAT scanner can recreate
3-D images of the objects it probes and, at a touch of a button,
will compute their volume, presumably with complete objectivity.

   The hominid's cranial capacity, Conroy found, measured 515 cubic
centimeters, about two cups of water, considerably less than the
600 cubic centimeters estimated by another anthropologist, Dr.
Donald Johanson. Conroy and his colleagues say that, given this
measurement, many other hominid skulls look as though their brain
sizes are substantially smaller than the volumes credited to them
in the scientific literature.

   For instance, Conroy has since found that a fossil hominid skull
reported to have a 440-cubic-centimeter brain really measures only
370 cubic centimeters, about the size of a chimpanzee brain.

   This is somewhat humbling since the hominid in question, known
as Australopithecus africanus, is thought to be an ancestor who
lived shortly after the hominid line split off from the line
leading to modern apes.

   Modern human brains have attained an adult volume of at least
1,200 cubic centimeters, about the engine capacity of a Harley
Davidson motorcycle. Although there is no simple relationship
between brain size and intelligence, a skull's interior volume,
when corrected for body size, is taken by paleoanthropologists as a
rough index of hominid intellectual capacity.

   The implication of Conroy's finding ``is that something is very
wrong with the published record of early hominid cranial
capacities,'' Dr. Dean Falk writes in a commentary on the the
paper, and if so, ``the ramifications for hominid brain evolution
may be profound.''

   Falk, an anthropologist at the State University of New York at
Albany, is an expert on endocranial casts, the impressions taken of
the interior of fossil skulls.

   Falk, who owns a large collection of such casts, said she could
see that in comparison with the skull measured by Conroy, many
other early hominids must also be less cerebrally endowed than
advertised.

   The skulls were measured with different techniques and by
different people, some of them many years ago, so the reason for
the wrong measurements is hard to assess.

   ``It's possible there was unconscious bias on the part of
various investigators,'' Falk said. ``In paleontology, there are at
times tendencies for people to come up with answers that support
their ideas.''

   Dr. Leslie Aiello, an anthropologist at University College,
London, said any downward revisions would make the
Australopithecines seem more ape-like in terms of cranial capacity.

   The objective measurement of fossil skulls has apparently never
been easy. Dr. Samuel Morton of Philadelphia, a leading figure in
19th-century science, ranked the races of the world by intellectual
capacity, as measured by the volume of their skulls. When Morton's
figures were recalculated 135 years later by Dr. Stephen J. Gould
of Harvard, Gould found the skulls of all races were essentially
the same size. One source of error, Gould suggested in his book
``The Mismeasure of Man,'' was that the mustard seed used to
measure the skulls could unconsciously be packed tighter in skulls
that the experimenter expected would be larger.

   Anthropologists around the world are now busily using CAT scans
to re-measure the hominid skulls in their collections.

   ``The mustard seed will go the same way as the slide rule,''
Aiello said.
',
			body: '


   (ja) 
 By NICHOLAS WADE    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   What is your exact height and weight? Anyone who even thinks of
tacking an extra half-inch onto one or shaving a pound or two from
the other can imagine the temptation felt by scientists when they
make measurements that affect a favorite theory.

   Though researchers are trained to resist such biases, conscious
and unconscious, a new measurement of an early hominid skull
suggests that, for whatever reason, the brain sizes of many human
ancestors were overestimated.

   Reducing the brain size of many early hominids, experts said,
could force serious revision in ideas about the evolution of the
human brain.

   The brain capacity of fossil hominids can be hard to measure
because the skulls are often crushed or incomplete. Researchers
sometimes take casts of the interior, filling in the missing
fragments with plasticine. The amount of water displaced by the
cast gives a measure of the brain's volume. Another method, used
for more than a century, is to pack the skull with mustard seeds,
which are then measured in a graduated flask.

   But these venerable techniques seem to have allowed room for
unconscious bias. Dr. Glenn Conroy, an anthropologist at the
Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, reports in
Friday's issue of Science that he has measured the skull capacity
of a 2.8-million-year-old hominid with a CAT scanner, a
computer-aided medical imaging device. The CAT scanner can recreate
3-D images of the objects it probes and, at a touch of a button,
will compute their volume, presumably with complete objectivity.

   The hominid's cranial capacity, Conroy found, measured 515 cubic
centimeters, about two cups of water, considerably less than the
600 cubic centimeters estimated by another anthropologist, Dr.
Donald Johanson. Conroy and his colleagues say that, given this
measurement, many other hominid skulls look as though their brain
sizes are substantially smaller than the volumes credited to them
in the scientific literature.

   For instance, Conroy has since found that a fossil hominid skull
reported to have a 440-cubic-centimeter brain really measures only
370 cubic centimeters, about the size of a chimpanzee brain.

   This is somewhat humbling since the hominid in question, known
as Australopithecus africanus, is thought to be an ancestor who
lived shortly after the hominid line split off from the line
leading to modern apes.

   Modern human brains have attained an adult volume of at least
1,200 cubic centimeters, about the engine capacity of a Harley
Davidson motorcycle. Although there is no simple relationship
between brain size and intelligence, a skull's interior volume,
when corrected for body size, is taken by paleoanthropologists as a
rough index of hominid intellectual capacity.

   The implication of Conroy's finding ``is that something is very
wrong with the published record of early hominid cranial
capacities,'' Dr. Dean Falk writes in a commentary on the the
paper, and if so, ``the ramifications for hominid brain evolution
may be profound.''

   Falk, an anthropologist at the State University of New York at
Albany, is an expert on endocranial casts, the impressions taken of
the interior of fossil skulls.

   Falk, who owns a large collection of such casts, said she could
see that in comparison with the skull measured by Conroy, many
other early hominids must also be less cerebrally endowed than
advertised.

   The skulls were measured with different techniques and by
different people, some of them many years ago, so the reason for
the wrong measurements is hard to assess.

   ``It's possible there was unconscious bias on the part of
various investigators,'' Falk said. ``In paleontology, there are at
times tendencies for people to come up with answers that support
their ideas.''

   Dr. Leslie Aiello, an anthropologist at University College,
London, said any downward revisions would make the
Australopithecines seem more ape-like in terms of cranial capacity.

   The objective measurement of fossil skulls has apparently never
been easy. Dr. Samuel Morton of Philadelphia, a leading figure in
19th-century science, ranked the races of the world by intellectual
capacity, as measured by the volume of their skulls. When Morton's
figures were recalculated 135 years later by Dr. Stephen J. Gould
of Harvard, Gould found the skulls of all races were essentially
the same size. One source of error, Gould suggested in his book
``The Mismeasure of Man,'' was that the mustard seed used to
measure the skulls could unconsciously be packed tighter in skulls
that the experimenter expected would be larger.

   Anthropologists around the world are now busily using CAT scans
to re-measure the hominid skulls in their collections.

   ``The mustard seed will go the same way as the slide rule,''
Aiello said.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0310 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:40 ',
			header: '
A5428 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-RACIAL-ATTACK-NET-HNS     06-11 0669
',
			slug: ' BC-RACIAL-ATTACK-NET-HNS ',
			headline: '
INTERNET USERS EXPRESS VIEWS OVER BRUTAL SLAYING OF TEXAS MAN 

',
			trailer: '
   In the faceless and uncensored world of global Internet chat,
the brutal slaying of a black man in Jasper, Texas, is the kind of
topic that had scores of people venting their emotions Thursday
over the electronic equivalent of the backyard fence.

   Some writers lamented last weekend's killing of James Byrd Jr.
as a ``demented'' hate crime that warrants the death penalty.
Others portrayed the three jailed white suspects as heroes, while
bashing news coverage of the killing and lambasting Wednesday's
visit to Jasper by the Rev. Jesse Jackson.

   Byrd, who apparently accepted a ride with the suspects, was
beaten and dragged behind a pickup. His head and arm were severed
from his body. &UR;

   &LR; News accounts of Byrd's slaying have been carried to the
farthest corners of the globe via the World Wide Web. Most major
news organizations have included the story on their Web sites in
recent days, and some, such as the British Broadcasting Corp., have
been featuring the story in world news roundups.

   Although none of the three suspects has yet been charged with
capital murder, the BBC reported: ``If found guilty, the three men
face death by lethal injection and can expect little judicial
mercy, as Texas is proud of its reputation for executing more
convicted killers than any other state in America.''

   Since the U.S. Supreme Court allowed executions to resume in
1976, Texas has executed more than 150 inmates. Texas's 37
executions last year made up half the national tally.

   But the BBC's observation is tame compared to the verbal
slugfest under way in unmoderated Web ``talk groups.''

   In a terse Web message titled ``What's wrong with this
country,'' an anonymous writer simply stated, ``What a horrible
killing!''

   ``I am not generally for the death penalty, but this crime was
hate-filled. We need a little frontier justice, like a lynch
party,'' said another writer.

   On the Web page for the National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People, President Kweisi Mfume said his organization
believes ``these cowards should never walk the street again as free
men.''

   He added, ``The total disregard for human life and the grotesque
nature of this murder demands that everyone who is concerned about
the sanctity of human life call for justice and speak out against
violent hate crimes of this nature.''

   One Ku Klux Klan-related Web page criticized media reports
linking the suspects to the Klan and blamed ``the scumbag,
child-killing, church burning, jack booted Zionest Occupational
Government'' for trying to link ``White Christian Patriot
organizations to a heinous crime that none of us in the movement
would orchestrate, condone or even permit within our ranks.''

   But many unsigned Internet commentaries openly belittled the
victim, his race and reports of his death.

   Like others, one writer accused the ``liberal'' media of
hypocrisy for failing to report how many blacks kill whites in this
country ``which are never labeled hate crimes ... ''

   Another writer vividly recounted how the murder occurred,
calling it ``fascinating'' and saying he wished the killers had
videotaped it.

   The writer asserted that the victim, who ``lived on disability
checks and didn't own a car,'' was partly to blame for his fate.
``If he valued his life, he should have kept walking when the three
white men offered him a ride.''

   &QL; 
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) &QL; 
 &QL;

   While it couldn't be ascertained where those comments
originated, similar ones were found in homegrown Texas talk
groups. &UR;

   &LR; A writer in a chat room on the Austin American-Statesman's Web
site criticized Jackson's involvement, accusing him of fanning the
flames of racism and adding, ``I hope he doesn't accept any rides
with strangers.''

   &QL; 
XXXX END OF STORY &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  By JOHN W. GONZALEZ 
c.1998 Houston Chronicle 

',
			paragraphs: '
   In the faceless and uncensored world of global Internet chat,
the brutal slaying of a black man in Jasper, Texas, is the kind of
topic that had scores of people venting their emotions Thursday
over the electronic equivalent of the backyard fence.

   Some writers lamented last weekend's killing of James Byrd Jr.
as a ``demented'' hate crime that warrants the death penalty.
Others portrayed the three jailed white suspects as heroes, while
bashing news coverage of the killing and lambasting Wednesday's
visit to Jasper by the Rev. Jesse Jackson.

   Byrd, who apparently accepted a ride with the suspects, was
beaten and dragged behind a pickup. His head and arm were severed
from his body. &UR;

   &LR; News accounts of Byrd's slaying have been carried to the
farthest corners of the globe via the World Wide Web. Most major
news organizations have included the story on their Web sites in
recent days, and some, such as the British Broadcasting Corp., have
been featuring the story in world news roundups.

   Although none of the three suspects has yet been charged with
capital murder, the BBC reported: ``If found guilty, the three men
face death by lethal injection and can expect little judicial
mercy, as Texas is proud of its reputation for executing more
convicted killers than any other state in America.''

   Since the U.S. Supreme Court allowed executions to resume in
1976, Texas has executed more than 150 inmates. Texas's 37
executions last year made up half the national tally.

   But the BBC's observation is tame compared to the verbal
slugfest under way in unmoderated Web ``talk groups.''

   In a terse Web message titled ``What's wrong with this
country,'' an anonymous writer simply stated, ``What a horrible
killing!''

   ``I am not generally for the death penalty, but this crime was
hate-filled. We need a little frontier justice, like a lynch
party,'' said another writer.

   On the Web page for the National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People, President Kweisi Mfume said his organization
believes ``these cowards should never walk the street again as free
men.''

   He added, ``The total disregard for human life and the grotesque
nature of this murder demands that everyone who is concerned about
the sanctity of human life call for justice and speak out against
violent hate crimes of this nature.''

   One Ku Klux Klan-related Web page criticized media reports
linking the suspects to the Klan and blamed ``the scumbag,
child-killing, church burning, jack booted Zionest Occupational
Government'' for trying to link ``White Christian Patriot
organizations to a heinous crime that none of us in the movement
would orchestrate, condone or even permit within our ranks.''

   But many unsigned Internet commentaries openly belittled the
victim, his race and reports of his death.

   Like others, one writer accused the ``liberal'' media of
hypocrisy for failing to report how many blacks kill whites in this
country ``which are never labeled hate crimes ... ''

   Another writer vividly recounted how the murder occurred,
calling it ``fascinating'' and saying he wished the killers had
videotaped it.

   The writer asserted that the victim, who ``lived on disability
checks and didn't own a car,'' was partly to blame for his fate.
``If he valued his life, he should have kept walking when the three
white men offered him a ride.''

   &QL; 
(STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS) &QL; 
 &QL;

   While it couldn't be ascertained where those comments
originated, similar ones were found in homegrown Texas talk
groups. &UR;

   &LR; A writer in a chat room on the Austin American-Statesman's Web
site criticized Jackson's involvement, accusing him of fanning the
flames of racism and adding, ``I hope he doesn't accept any rides
with strangers.''

   &QL; 
XXXX END OF STORY &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0311 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:42 ',
			header: '
A5430 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MITSUBISHI-HARASSMENT     06-11 0668
',
			slug: ' BC-MITSUBISHI-HARASSMENT-NYT ',
			headline: '
MITSUBISHI SETTLES SEXUAL HARASSMENT SUIT FOR $34 MILLION 
',
			trailer: '
   CHICAGO _ In the largest sexual harassment settlement ever
negotiated by the federal government, Mitsubishi Motor Corp.'s
American subsidiary Thursday agreed to pay $34 million to end a
government lawsuit charging that hundreds of female workers its
automobile assembly plant in Normal had been sexually harassed.

   The payment, negotiated by the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, was hailed by some lawyers representing women as a
strong warning to top managers that improper behavior on the
factory floor needed to be aggressively handled. But others said
that the amount seemed modest in light of Mitsubishi's agreement
last summer to pay $10 million to settle harassment suits filed
privately on behalf of 27 women who worked at the plant.

   ``It's good news whenever a large company is forced to accept
responsibility for the mistreatment of its employees,'' said Keith
Hunt, a Chicago lawyer who represents a number of women who
recently sued the Ford Motor Co. ``The real test is what the
working environment for women there is going forward.''

   Mitsubishi said the settlement was ``the right business
decision'' and would support its efforts over the last 20 months to
institute training programs and other changes that it said would
prevent future problems. Kohei Ikuta, executive vice president of
Mitsubishi Motors of America Inc., said, ``We want to reaffirm
today what we have said previously: We have had problems involving
sexual harassment which required correction and we extend our
sincere regret to any woman who has been harmed.''

   Both the federal and the private lawsuits complained of routine
groping, graffiti and degrading remarks directed at women, who made
up about a fifth of the 4,000 plant employees. The lawsuits also
asserted that Mitsubishi managers had created an atmosphere that
condoned such behavior.

   Mitsubishi initially denied any wrongdoing, arguing that it had
actively investigated accusations of harassment or discrimination
that had been brought to its attention since the plant opened in
1987. It staged a rally intended to embarrass the equal-opportunity
commission by busing employees three hours from Normal to the
agency's office here.

   But the women also garnered widespread attention. The Rev. Jesse
Jackson led a boycott of the company's cars and the National
Organization for Women organized demonstrations at Mitsubishi
dealerships around the country. With sales declining, the company
hired Lynn Martin, a former secretary of labor, to perform an
independent study and recommend management changes. The company
began mandatory sexual harassment training for all employees.
Eventually, it negotiated an end to the boycott and resolution of
the private suits.

   To become effective, the settlement must be approved by Judge
Joe Billy McDade of Federal District Court, who had been pushing
the two sides to reach an agreement. The proposed consent decree
would also require Mitsubishi to allow a panel of three independent
observers to monitor its training programs and efforts to encourage
employees with complaints to come forward.

   The $34 million would be distributed among current and former
employees based on a variety of criteria, including the severity of
the harassment they suffered, the duration of the illegal conduct,
and whether it led them to quit their jobs. The largest payment
that can go to any woman under the law is $300,000.

   The commission said that the women who had already come forward
with complaints would be sent claim forms. All current and former
female employees at the plant are to be mailed notice of the
settlement if McDade approves it.

   The Normal factory manufactures the Mitsubishi Eclipse, Spyder
convertible and Galant. It also makes two cars for Chrysler Corp.,
the Dodge Avenger and the Chrysler Sebring.
',
			body: '


  (ja) 
 By BARNABY J. FEDER    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   CHICAGO _ In the largest sexual harassment settlement ever
negotiated by the federal government, Mitsubishi Motor Corp.'s
American subsidiary Thursday agreed to pay $34 million to end a
government lawsuit charging that hundreds of female workers its
automobile assembly plant in Normal had been sexually harassed.

   The payment, negotiated by the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, was hailed by some lawyers representing women as a
strong warning to top managers that improper behavior on the
factory floor needed to be aggressively handled. But others said
that the amount seemed modest in light of Mitsubishi's agreement
last summer to pay $10 million to settle harassment suits filed
privately on behalf of 27 women who worked at the plant.

   ``It's good news whenever a large company is forced to accept
responsibility for the mistreatment of its employees,'' said Keith
Hunt, a Chicago lawyer who represents a number of women who
recently sued the Ford Motor Co. ``The real test is what the
working environment for women there is going forward.''

   Mitsubishi said the settlement was ``the right business
decision'' and would support its efforts over the last 20 months to
institute training programs and other changes that it said would
prevent future problems. Kohei Ikuta, executive vice president of
Mitsubishi Motors of America Inc., said, ``We want to reaffirm
today what we have said previously: We have had problems involving
sexual harassment which required correction and we extend our
sincere regret to any woman who has been harmed.''

   Both the federal and the private lawsuits complained of routine
groping, graffiti and degrading remarks directed at women, who made
up about a fifth of the 4,000 plant employees. The lawsuits also
asserted that Mitsubishi managers had created an atmosphere that
condoned such behavior.

   Mitsubishi initially denied any wrongdoing, arguing that it had
actively investigated accusations of harassment or discrimination
that had been brought to its attention since the plant opened in
1987. It staged a rally intended to embarrass the equal-opportunity
commission by busing employees three hours from Normal to the
agency's office here.

   But the women also garnered widespread attention. The Rev. Jesse
Jackson led a boycott of the company's cars and the National
Organization for Women organized demonstrations at Mitsubishi
dealerships around the country. With sales declining, the company
hired Lynn Martin, a former secretary of labor, to perform an
independent study and recommend management changes. The company
began mandatory sexual harassment training for all employees.
Eventually, it negotiated an end to the boycott and resolution of
the private suits.

   To become effective, the settlement must be approved by Judge
Joe Billy McDade of Federal District Court, who had been pushing
the two sides to reach an agreement. The proposed consent decree
would also require Mitsubishi to allow a panel of three independent
observers to monitor its training programs and efforts to encourage
employees with complaints to come forward.

   The $34 million would be distributed among current and former
employees based on a variety of criteria, including the severity of
the harassment they suffered, the duration of the illegal conduct,
and whether it led them to quit their jobs. The largest payment
that can go to any woman under the law is $300,000.

   The commission said that the women who had already come forward
with complaints would be sent claim forms. All current and former
female employees at the plant are to be mailed notice of the
settlement if McDade approves it.

   The Normal factory manufactures the Mitsubishi Eclipse, Spyder
convertible and Galant. It also makes two cars for Chrysler Corp.,
the Dodge Avenger and the Chrysler Sebring.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0312 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:44 ',
			header: '
A5431 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CHICAGO-GUN-SUIT-NYT &LR;      06-11 0933
',
			slug: ' BC-CHICAGO-GUN-SUIT-NYT ',
			headline: '
CHICAGO CONSIDERS LAWSUIT AGAINST GUNMAKERS  
 (JT )
',
			trailer: '
   CHICAGO _ In the face of the persistent threat of gun violence,
Mayor Richard Daley is considering filing a lawsuit against the
makers, marketers and sellers of guns as a way to stop the flow of
illegal guns into the city.

   The suit, which the city's legal staff is now exploring, would
ask a court to enjoin the industry from practices like marketing
guns in ways that make them attractive to criminals and selling
handguns or assault rifles to people who live in Chicago, where
those guns are banned.

   ``The key is to get a lawsuit whereby the manufacturer is held
liable, just like the smoking industry is held liable,'' Daley said
at a news conference this week.

   Chicago is the second major city to consider suing the gun
industry. In Philadelphia, where the rate of gun violence has
stayed steady in the wake of national declines, Mayor Edward
Rendell's legal staff has prepared a lawsuit that would seek
millions of dollars from gun manufacturers to reimburse the city
for the costs of gun violence, including health care expenses,
overtime for homicide investigators and the cost of washing blood
off the streets.

   This week, during the National Rifle Association convention in
Philadelphia, Rendell said he would hold off on filing the lawsuit
for four to six months until he sees the results of planned
meetings between officials from several cities and gun makers who
have agreed to try to reach a consensus on ways to decrease the
illegal use of guns.

   The Chicago suit, which lawyers have been working on for about a
year, would be different from the Philadelphia case and unlike any
other lawsuit city officials are aware of.

   ``We won't be asking for money,'' said Lawrence Rosenthal, the
deputy corporation counsel for the city of Chicago. Instead,
Chicago would ask for a court injunction requiring that
distributors and marketers ``not take action that creates an
unreasonable risk that the city's laws will be violated.''

   Chicago has among the toughest gun-control laws in the country,
with rifles the only type of gun allowed to be sold or possessed in
the city _ and only if the rifles are registered. Rosenthal said
his staff was combing through four years' worth of records on
seizures of illegal weapons to come up with names of sellers whose
guns repeatedly ended up being confiscated in Chicago. He said the
suit could apply to ``anyone who could reasonably sell guns to
someone who lives in Chicago. It could apply to a catalog company
in Bakersfield, Calif.''

   For example, he said, city officials would like gun dealers and
gun shows outside the city that sell handguns to be required to
check if the buyer is someone whose only legal address is in
Chicago, and to either refrain from selling the gun or alert
law-enforcement authorities. If they are selling rifles, the city
would like to see them required to hold the gun until the buyer
properly registers the rifle, he said.

   Rosenthal also said he would like to enjoin gun marketers from
using phrases in their advertisements that seem to appeal to
criminals. He cited the words ``excellent resistance to
fingerprints,'' which are contained in an advertisement for a TEC-9
pistol.

   Richard Feldman, the executive director of the American Shooting
Sports Council, said trying to accuse manufacturers and dealers of
``public nuisance is a fascinating theory but it doesn't apply to a
sale of a lawful product unless there was in fact collusion to
violate the law.''

   He said many reasons why such an injunction, even if possible,
would not be effective, including the difficulty of determining
where someone actually lives and where they expect to use a gun,
and the difficulty of knowing whether someone buying a gun intends
to give it to someone else. He said the marketing restrictions
would be unconstitutional, and said the no-fingerprint
advertisement

   Legal experts said this kind of case would ply uncharted
territory, and they suggested some of the provisions might violate
free speech guarantees or violate interstate commerce laws that
prevent one jurisdiction from telling another what to do.

   ``That strikes me as a big stretch, but it's certainly
interesting,'' said George Christie, a professor of law at Duke
University. He said it would be difficult to ``show that what these
people are doing is facilitating an illegal action.''

   John Coffee, a professor of law at Columbia University, said the
city might be able to require catalog companies to refuse to ship
handguns or assault weapons to a Chicago address or to enjoin other
merchants from selling to someone they know lives in Chicago. But
he said it would be unlikely to get a court order requiring sellers
to ask someone where they lived.

   Private civil lawsuits seeking to hold gunmakers accountable for
deaths or injuries because they make a dangerous product have
consistently failed.

   But in Chicago this week, three families whose children were
killed by handguns, took a different tack, filing a lawsuit
alleging that the design, marketing and distribution of guns
``combined to create a situation where it was highly likely that
the guns would flow into the underground market.''

   The case is similar to a pending suit in federal district court
in New York which contends gun manufacturers and distributors
should be held liable in the 1994 shooting of two Jewish students
by a Middle Eastern terrorist on the Brooklyn Bridge.

   &QL;
',
			body: '


   By PAM BELLUCK    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   CHICAGO _ In the face of the persistent threat of gun violence,
Mayor Richard Daley is considering filing a lawsuit against the
makers, marketers and sellers of guns as a way to stop the flow of
illegal guns into the city.

   The suit, which the city's legal staff is now exploring, would
ask a court to enjoin the industry from practices like marketing
guns in ways that make them attractive to criminals and selling
handguns or assault rifles to people who live in Chicago, where
those guns are banned.

   ``The key is to get a lawsuit whereby the manufacturer is held
liable, just like the smoking industry is held liable,'' Daley said
at a news conference this week.

   Chicago is the second major city to consider suing the gun
industry. In Philadelphia, where the rate of gun violence has
stayed steady in the wake of national declines, Mayor Edward
Rendell's legal staff has prepared a lawsuit that would seek
millions of dollars from gun manufacturers to reimburse the city
for the costs of gun violence, including health care expenses,
overtime for homicide investigators and the cost of washing blood
off the streets.

   This week, during the National Rifle Association convention in
Philadelphia, Rendell said he would hold off on filing the lawsuit
for four to six months until he sees the results of planned
meetings between officials from several cities and gun makers who
have agreed to try to reach a consensus on ways to decrease the
illegal use of guns.

   The Chicago suit, which lawyers have been working on for about a
year, would be different from the Philadelphia case and unlike any
other lawsuit city officials are aware of.

   ``We won't be asking for money,'' said Lawrence Rosenthal, the
deputy corporation counsel for the city of Chicago. Instead,
Chicago would ask for a court injunction requiring that
distributors and marketers ``not take action that creates an
unreasonable risk that the city's laws will be violated.''

   Chicago has among the toughest gun-control laws in the country,
with rifles the only type of gun allowed to be sold or possessed in
the city _ and only if the rifles are registered. Rosenthal said
his staff was combing through four years' worth of records on
seizures of illegal weapons to come up with names of sellers whose
guns repeatedly ended up being confiscated in Chicago. He said the
suit could apply to ``anyone who could reasonably sell guns to
someone who lives in Chicago. It could apply to a catalog company
in Bakersfield, Calif.''

   For example, he said, city officials would like gun dealers and
gun shows outside the city that sell handguns to be required to
check if the buyer is someone whose only legal address is in
Chicago, and to either refrain from selling the gun or alert
law-enforcement authorities. If they are selling rifles, the city
would like to see them required to hold the gun until the buyer
properly registers the rifle, he said.

   Rosenthal also said he would like to enjoin gun marketers from
using phrases in their advertisements that seem to appeal to
criminals. He cited the words ``excellent resistance to
fingerprints,'' which are contained in an advertisement for a TEC-9
pistol.

   Richard Feldman, the executive director of the American Shooting
Sports Council, said trying to accuse manufacturers and dealers of
``public nuisance is a fascinating theory but it doesn't apply to a
sale of a lawful product unless there was in fact collusion to
violate the law.''

   He said many reasons why such an injunction, even if possible,
would not be effective, including the difficulty of determining
where someone actually lives and where they expect to use a gun,
and the difficulty of knowing whether someone buying a gun intends
to give it to someone else. He said the marketing restrictions
would be unconstitutional, and said the no-fingerprint
advertisement

   Legal experts said this kind of case would ply uncharted
territory, and they suggested some of the provisions might violate
free speech guarantees or violate interstate commerce laws that
prevent one jurisdiction from telling another what to do.

   ``That strikes me as a big stretch, but it's certainly
interesting,'' said George Christie, a professor of law at Duke
University. He said it would be difficult to ``show that what these
people are doing is facilitating an illegal action.''

   John Coffee, a professor of law at Columbia University, said the
city might be able to require catalog companies to refuse to ship
handguns or assault weapons to a Chicago address or to enjoin other
merchants from selling to someone they know lives in Chicago. But
he said it would be unlikely to get a court order requiring sellers
to ask someone where they lived.

   Private civil lawsuits seeking to hold gunmakers accountable for
deaths or injuries because they make a dangerous product have
consistently failed.

   But in Chicago this week, three families whose children were
killed by handguns, took a different tack, filing a lawsuit
alleging that the design, marketing and distribution of guns
``combined to create a situation where it was highly likely that
the guns would flow into the underground market.''

   The case is similar to a pending suit in federal district court
in New York which contends gun manufacturers and distributors
should be held liable in the 1994 shooting of two Jewish students
by a Middle Eastern terrorist on the Brooklyn Bridge.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0313 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:47 ',
			header: '
A5434 &Cx1f; tta-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GM-STRIKE-ART-800(2TA     06-11 0866
',
			slug: ' BC-GM-STRIKE-ART-800(2TAKES)-NYT ',
			headline: '
UAW STRIKE AGAINST GM SPREADS TO 2ND PARTS FACTORY 
',
			trailer: '
   DETROIT _ Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike on Thursday
evening at a General Motors spark plug and speedometer factory in
Flint, Mich., joining fellow strikers at a nearby GM plant in an
increasingly bitter fight that could close all of the leading
automaker's North American assembly plants within days.

   GM had already closed seven of those assembly plants and
temporarily laid off 18,600 workers for lack of parts from the
initial strike last Friday at a metal-stamping plant in Flint. Most
of GM's other 22 assembly plants in the United States, Canada and
Mexico are now expected to quickly run out of the spark plugs,
speedometers and other parts made by the giant factory where
workers walked out on Thursday night.

   Angry over what they called unmet demands for job security and
improved health and safety conditions, hundreds of workers chanting
``UAW!'' and toting red placards identifying their local union unit
mobbed the spark plug factory's gates on Thursday evening. They
were joined by workers from the metal-stamping factory, who struck
over the same issues.

   Scattered among the picketers were UAW members from across
Michigan and even Ohio and Illinois who had come to show their
anger at GM, which has contended with steadily worsening labor
relations in trying to make its factories run as efficiently as
those of competitors.

   GM said in a terse statement that it was disappointed by the
broadening of the strike to a second parts factory. ``We have
committed, talented people and we encourage the union to join
management leadership at both facilities to urgently reach
settlements that help us effectively work with them to improve GM's
competitive position in the marketplace,'' the company said.

   Union officials at both factories have cited health and safety
concerns for their strikes, because the UAW's current contract with
GM limits most other walkouts and does not expire for another year.

   But union officials have acknowledged a broader agenda as well.
The spark plug factory workers have been increasingly alarmed in
recent years as GM has bought more basic auto parts from outside
companies, including some in Mexico, while selling its own
factories or cutting back employment.

   The metal-stamping factory workers have been worried that GM
management is assigning other factories work on vehicles not yet in
production, possibly signaling the stamping plant's
obsolescence.The strikers have also been infuriated by GM's
decision to remove, over the Memorial Day weekend, many of the
casting dies needed to stamp hoods and other metal parts for GM's
new full-size pickup trucks.

   As in eight other local strikes over the last three years, GM
executives have vowed to proceed with their long-standing plans to
cut costs. But senior UAW officials have increasingly come to see
this confrontation as an emotional struggle, perceiving a threat to
the union's long-term survival in GM's willingness to remove
equipment from plants where workers are about to go on strike.

   Two people close to the UAW said that with the broadening of the
strike to a second factory, the overall walkout could easily last
until the end of June. Union leaders will face pressure to settle
so that UAW members can collect full pay during the industry's
annual summer vacation in early July.

   National leaders of the UAW almost never visited the picket
lines during eight local strikes against GM over the previous three
years. But they have been doing so daily this week. While senior
UAW and GM officials refrained from criticizing each other in
public during the previous strikes, both sides have been doing so
this time.

   Even people close to the UAW concede that the metal stamping
workers in Flint have had one of the most generous special deals in
the auto industry. Its provisions allowed some workers to draw a
full day's pay for half a day's work. Workers agreed two years ago
to give up many of these provisions in exchange for further GM
investment in Flint. The union now contends that the investment has
not been forthcoming, an accusation denied by GM.

   The truck parts metal-stamping equipment was transferred by GM
to an Ohio factory with a more efficient work force. GM has been
planning to build the pickups initially in Oshawa, Ontario.

   But Basil Hargrove, the president of the Canadian Auto Workers
Union, warned in a telephone interview on Thursday morning that GM
should not count on Canadian worker willingness to accept parts
produced by equipment taken out of the Flint factory. The Canadian
workers were angry that GM managers had made such a presumption.

   ``We're not noted much for strike breaking,'' Hargrove said.
``If anybody says they're moving those dies and that's your
livelihood, logic no longer plays any part of it, it's emotion.''

   nn

   GM executives have said repeatedly this year that the company
must become more efficient to stay competitive. While Ford and
Chrysler now derive most of their automotive sales and profits from
pickups, mini-vans and sport utility vehicles, with relatively
little competition from foreign brands, GM still sells mostly cars
and faces heavy pressure from imports and from non-union factories
in the United States.

   That pressure has only increased as the dollar's value has
soared in global foreign-exchange markets this year, which makes it
even cheaper for foreign automakers to sell their cars in this
country with generous discounts.

   GM's stamping operations are particularly inefficient compared
with those of rivals. The company gloated last summer that its cost
for producing new dies was only twice that of GM's most efficient
competitor _ but used to be eight times higher.

   The stamping factory in Flint is among the least efficient of
all, and under great pressure from GM to improve its results or
face closure.``They have 14 stamping facilities and they probably
need 9 or 10,'' said David Bradley, an analyst at J.P. Morgan and
Co.

   A successful introduction of the new pickup truck is considered
vital to GM, which earns up to half its worldwide profits just from
sales in North America of full-size pickup trucks and the Suburban,
Yukon and Tahoe sport utility vehicles, which share the same
underbodies. GM plans to introduce new versions of the sport
utility vehicles a year after the new pickups.

   Canadian law puts more restrictions than American law on the
ability of unions to strike in between contract negotiations, and
the current Canadian labor contract runs until late 1999. But the
Oshawa workers are among the most militant in the North American
auto industry.

   During a 1996 strike, GM sent a flat-bed truck with a police
escort to the Oshawa factory and tried to remove parts-making
equipment similar to the equipment removed from the Flint factory.
Hundreds of Canadian auto workers blocked the front gates and
refused police orders to disperse. GM sought a court order against
the union action but later dropped it as part of a broad strike
settlement.

   Hargrove said that no parts from the moved Flint equipment had
arrived yet in Oshawa, and he declined to speculate on what would
happen if they did. GM officials said that they had begun producing
the pickup parts at another location but refused to identify where
or say whether the parts were being shipped to Canada.
',
			body: '


  (ART ADV; Photo has been sent to NYT photo clients. Non-subscribers
can make individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(sw) 
 By KEITH BRADSHER   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   DETROIT _ Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike on Thursday
evening at a General Motors spark plug and speedometer factory in
Flint, Mich., joining fellow strikers at a nearby GM plant in an
increasingly bitter fight that could close all of the leading
automaker's North American assembly plants within days.

   GM had already closed seven of those assembly plants and
temporarily laid off 18,600 workers for lack of parts from the
initial strike last Friday at a metal-stamping plant in Flint. Most
of GM's other 22 assembly plants in the United States, Canada and
Mexico are now expected to quickly run out of the spark plugs,
speedometers and other parts made by the giant factory where
workers walked out on Thursday night.

   Angry over what they called unmet demands for job security and
improved health and safety conditions, hundreds of workers chanting
``UAW!'' and toting red placards identifying their local union unit
mobbed the spark plug factory's gates on Thursday evening. They
were joined by workers from the metal-stamping factory, who struck
over the same issues.

   Scattered among the picketers were UAW members from across
Michigan and even Ohio and Illinois who had come to show their
anger at GM, which has contended with steadily worsening labor
relations in trying to make its factories run as efficiently as
those of competitors.

   GM said in a terse statement that it was disappointed by the
broadening of the strike to a second parts factory. ``We have
committed, talented people and we encourage the union to join
management leadership at both facilities to urgently reach
settlements that help us effectively work with them to improve GM's
competitive position in the marketplace,'' the company said.

   Union officials at both factories have cited health and safety
concerns for their strikes, because the UAW's current contract with
GM limits most other walkouts and does not expire for another year.

   But union officials have acknowledged a broader agenda as well.
The spark plug factory workers have been increasingly alarmed in
recent years as GM has bought more basic auto parts from outside
companies, including some in Mexico, while selling its own
factories or cutting back employment.

   The metal-stamping factory workers have been worried that GM
management is assigning other factories work on vehicles not yet in
production, possibly signaling the stamping plant's
obsolescence.The strikers have also been infuriated by GM's
decision to remove, over the Memorial Day weekend, many of the
casting dies needed to stamp hoods and other metal parts for GM's
new full-size pickup trucks.

   As in eight other local strikes over the last three years, GM
executives have vowed to proceed with their long-standing plans to
cut costs. But senior UAW officials have increasingly come to see
this confrontation as an emotional struggle, perceiving a threat to
the union's long-term survival in GM's willingness to remove
equipment from plants where workers are about to go on strike.

   Two people close to the UAW said that with the broadening of the
strike to a second factory, the overall walkout could easily last
until the end of June. Union leaders will face pressure to settle
so that UAW members can collect full pay during the industry's
annual summer vacation in early July.

   National leaders of the UAW almost never visited the picket
lines during eight local strikes against GM over the previous three
years. But they have been doing so daily this week. While senior
UAW and GM officials refrained from criticizing each other in
public during the previous strikes, both sides have been doing so
this time.

   Even people close to the UAW concede that the metal stamping
workers in Flint have had one of the most generous special deals in
the auto industry. Its provisions allowed some workers to draw a
full day's pay for half a day's work. Workers agreed two years ago
to give up many of these provisions in exchange for further GM
investment in Flint. The union now contends that the investment has
not been forthcoming, an accusation denied by GM.

   The truck parts metal-stamping equipment was transferred by GM
to an Ohio factory with a more efficient work force. GM has been
planning to build the pickups initially in Oshawa, Ontario.

   But Basil Hargrove, the president of the Canadian Auto Workers
Union, warned in a telephone interview on Thursday morning that GM
should not count on Canadian worker willingness to accept parts
produced by equipment taken out of the Flint factory. The Canadian
workers were angry that GM managers had made such a presumption.

   ``We're not noted much for strike breaking,'' Hargrove said.
``If anybody says they're moving those dies and that's your
livelihood, logic no longer plays any part of it, it's emotion.''

   nn

   GM executives have said repeatedly this year that the company
must become more efficient to stay competitive. While Ford and
Chrysler now derive most of their automotive sales and profits from
pickups, mini-vans and sport utility vehicles, with relatively
little competition from foreign brands, GM still sells mostly cars
and faces heavy pressure from imports and from non-union factories
in the United States.

   That pressure has only increased as the dollar's value has
soared in global foreign-exchange markets this year, which makes it
even cheaper for foreign automakers to sell their cars in this
country with generous discounts.

   GM's stamping operations are particularly inefficient compared
with those of rivals. The company gloated last summer that its cost
for producing new dies was only twice that of GM's most efficient
competitor _ but used to be eight times higher.

   The stamping factory in Flint is among the least efficient of
all, and under great pressure from GM to improve its results or
face closure.``They have 14 stamping facilities and they probably
need 9 or 10,'' said David Bradley, an analyst at J.P. Morgan and
Co.

   A successful introduction of the new pickup truck is considered
vital to GM, which earns up to half its worldwide profits just from
sales in North America of full-size pickup trucks and the Suburban,
Yukon and Tahoe sport utility vehicles, which share the same
underbodies. GM plans to introduce new versions of the sport
utility vehicles a year after the new pickups.

   Canadian law puts more restrictions than American law on the
ability of unions to strike in between contract negotiations, and
the current Canadian labor contract runs until late 1999. But the
Oshawa workers are among the most militant in the North American
auto industry.

   During a 1996 strike, GM sent a flat-bed truck with a police
escort to the Oshawa factory and tried to remove parts-making
equipment similar to the equipment removed from the Flint factory.
Hundreds of Canadian auto workers blocked the front gates and
refused police orders to disperse. GM sought a court order against
the union action but later dropped it as part of a broad strike
settlement.

   Hargrove said that no parts from the moved Flint equipment had
arrived yet in Oshawa, and he declined to speculate on what would
happen if they did. GM officials said that they had begun producing
the pickup parts at another location but refused to identify where
or say whether the parts were being shipped to Canada.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0315 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:48 ',
			header: '
A5436 &Cx1f; taf-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-KOSOVO-RUSSIA-300&AMP;ADD     06-11 0596
',
			slug: ' BC-KOSOVO-RUSSIA-300&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
YELTSIN INVITES MILOSEVIC FOR A SLAV-TO-SLAV TALK 
',
			trailer: '
   MOSCOW _ In an attempt to head off possible NATO military action
in the Kosovo crisis, Russian President Boris Yeltsin has invited
Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic for talks in Moscow. The
talks are scheduled for Monday or Tuesday.

   They come as NATO nations are threatening to use force to stop
Milosevic from cracking down on ethnic Albanians fighting for a
separate state in Kosovo, the southernmost province in Serbia.
Montenegro and Serbia are the last two republics in Yugoslavia.

   There are several reasons why the Russians oppose NATO's
military involvement in Kosovo, where ethnic Albanians make up 90
percent of a population of about two million.

   Under the influence of Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov, Russia
has sought to diminish NATO's role in post-Cold War Europe, though
without much success. Russian officials also fear that intervention
could set a precedent for outside involvement in Russia and its own
regions of ethnic tension, like the breakaway republic of Chechnya.

   Beyond that, the talks give Russia's diplomats a rare
opportunity to take the world stage, a role they particularly
relish since the collapse of the Soviet Union. They also allow the
Yeltsin government to show its concern for its fellow Slavs, a step
that is more a matter of domestic than international politics.

   What is less clear is whether the meeting offers much hope for a
diplomatic breakthrough. Russia had little apparent success in
influencing Milosevic during the war in Bosnia, where NATO air
power was far more important.

   Still, U.S. officials see the talks as an opportunity to
persuade Milosevic to halt its crackdown, which has led to the
killing of hundreds of ethnic Albanians and displaced tens of
thousands, and threatens to ignite a wider Balkan war.

   ``We welcome President Yeltsin's personal involvement in this
important issue,'' said State Department spokesman James Rubin.
``But we still believe we need to plan for possible military
measures in light of the difficulty we see for successful diplomacy
at this stage.''

   Primakov flew to London on Thursday for a meeting with Western
foreign ministers on a cease-fire in Kosovo between Serbian forces
and the Kosovo Liberation Army.

   Thursday, Primakov's spokesman, Vladimir Rakhmanin, outlined the
Russian stance.

   Instead of emphasizing measures to protect ethnic Albanians,
Russia has been talking about containing Albanian partisans.
Rakhmanin pointed to the need for effective monitoring along
Kosovo's border with Albania ``to prevent the flow of weapons and
terrorist groups to Kosovo.'' Hundreds of ethnic Albanians have
arrived in Albania from elsewhere to help the Kosovars' fight the
Serbs.

   He also said NATO should not be allowed to use force without the
approval of the United Nations Security Council, where Russia
wields a veto. The United States, working with Britain, is drafting
a United Nations resolution authorizing ``all necessary means'' to
stop the Kosovo fighting.

   Western officials say Russia is undercutting the prospects for a
negotiated settlement by opposing the threat of force. But
Rakhmanin displayed no sympathy for that argument, saying Russia
opposes ``the idea of using NATO forces in Yugoslavia, as advocated
by several members of the alliance.''
',
			body: '


  (See also KOSOVO-LANDMINES, KOSOVO-NATO) 
(bl) 
 By MICHAEL R. GORDON   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   MOSCOW _ In an attempt to head off possible NATO military action
in the Kosovo crisis, Russian President Boris Yeltsin has invited
Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic for talks in Moscow. The
talks are scheduled for Monday or Tuesday.

   They come as NATO nations are threatening to use force to stop
Milosevic from cracking down on ethnic Albanians fighting for a
separate state in Kosovo, the southernmost province in Serbia.
Montenegro and Serbia are the last two republics in Yugoslavia.

   There are several reasons why the Russians oppose NATO's
military involvement in Kosovo, where ethnic Albanians make up 90
percent of a population of about two million.

   Under the influence of Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov, Russia
has sought to diminish NATO's role in post-Cold War Europe, though
without much success. Russian officials also fear that intervention
could set a precedent for outside involvement in Russia and its own
regions of ethnic tension, like the breakaway republic of Chechnya.

   Beyond that, the talks give Russia's diplomats a rare
opportunity to take the world stage, a role they particularly
relish since the collapse of the Soviet Union. They also allow the
Yeltsin government to show its concern for its fellow Slavs, a step
that is more a matter of domestic than international politics.

   What is less clear is whether the meeting offers much hope for a
diplomatic breakthrough. Russia had little apparent success in
influencing Milosevic during the war in Bosnia, where NATO air
power was far more important.

   Still, U.S. officials see the talks as an opportunity to
persuade Milosevic to halt its crackdown, which has led to the
killing of hundreds of ethnic Albanians and displaced tens of
thousands, and threatens to ignite a wider Balkan war.

   ``We welcome President Yeltsin's personal involvement in this
important issue,'' said State Department spokesman James Rubin.
``But we still believe we need to plan for possible military
measures in light of the difficulty we see for successful diplomacy
at this stage.''

   Primakov flew to London on Thursday for a meeting with Western
foreign ministers on a cease-fire in Kosovo between Serbian forces
and the Kosovo Liberation Army.

   Thursday, Primakov's spokesman, Vladimir Rakhmanin, outlined the
Russian stance.

   Instead of emphasizing measures to protect ethnic Albanians,
Russia has been talking about containing Albanian partisans.
Rakhmanin pointed to the need for effective monitoring along
Kosovo's border with Albania ``to prevent the flow of weapons and
terrorist groups to Kosovo.'' Hundreds of ethnic Albanians have
arrived in Albania from elsewhere to help the Kosovars' fight the
Serbs.

   He also said NATO should not be allowed to use force without the
approval of the United Nations Security Council, where Russia
wields a veto. The United States, working with Britain, is drafting
a United Nations resolution authorizing ``all necessary means'' to
stop the Kosovo fighting.

   Western officials say Russia is undercutting the prospects for a
negotiated settlement by opposing the threat of force. But
Rakhmanin displayed no sympathy for that argument, saying Russia
opposes ``the idea of using NATO forces in Yugoslavia, as advocated
by several members of the alliance.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0316 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:54 ',
			header: '
A5441 &Cx1f; tta-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-KOSOVO-MILITARY-525&AMP;A     06-11 1031
',
			slug: ' BC-KOSOVO-MILITARY-525&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
NATO ACTION IN KOSOVO WOULD FACE NEW PITFALLS 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Three years ago, NATO jets pounded Bosnian Serb
separatists into submission, bombarding their heavy weapons,
ammunition depots, supply routes and lines of communication until
their leaders agreed to make peace with Bosnia-Herzegovina's
Muslims and Croats.

   Now, in a neighboring part of the Balkans, NATO is once again
weighing the use of force, this time to stop the Yugoslav
government's crackdown on ethnic Albanian separatists in the
province of Kosovo. American and NATO officials say their planning
is focusing on more or less the same strategy as in Bosnia.

   But while there are similarities between the violence in Kosovo
and the war in Bosnia, there are also significant differences. And
those differences, when coupled with the political and legal
hurdles to any international response to the Yugoslav army's sweep
through Kosovo to put down an internal rebellion, have complicated
the military planning, these officials said, speaking on condition
of anonymity.

   First of all, the Yugoslav army _ the successor of the unified
armed forces of Yugoslavia before its breakup _ is much better
organized, trained and equipped than the Bosnian Serbs ever were,
greatly increasing the risk to NATO forces involved in air strikes
or any other military action.

   Unlike the war in Bosnia, the Yugoslav government's campaign in
the predominantly ethnic Albanian province of Kosovo lacks dug-in
front lines separating warring armies.

   Many of the forces taking part are Serbian police and
paramilitary units. And while the Yugoslav army has used tanks,
helicopters and heavy artillery to shell villages along Kosovo's
border with Albania, these forces are not heavily concentrated, and
they are continuously on the move.

   That, the officials said, would make it difficult, if not
impossible, to find and destroy the bulk of the Yugoslav forces _
if that is even the objective, which is far from clear. ``It's not
easy stuff to hit,'' a NATO military official said in Brussels on
Thursday.

   Also, any NATO attack is unlikely to cut off the supply lines
from central Serbia to the Yugoslav forces in Kosovo, Serbia's
southernmost province, since there are no natural barriers like
rivers separating the rolling hills and broad plains of Kosovo from
the rest of Yugoslavia. By contrast, in Bosnia, NATO's commanders
contemplated bombing bridges over the Drina River that linked the
Bosnian Serbs to their sponsors in Serbia.

   For now the hope is that a strong threat of force alone will be
enough to persuade Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic to ease
his government's suppression of Kosovo. The decision Thursday by
NATO's defense ministers to stage a vast military exercise in
neighboring Albania and Macedonia _ including simulated air strikes
_ is clearly meant more as a show of force than a practice run.

   ``It's not a rehearsal for anything,'' the Pentagon's spokesman,
Kenneth Bacon, said Thursday.

   Still, at Thursday's meeting at NATO's headquarters in Brussels,
the defense ministers ordered commanders to draw up a series of
military options to try to end the conflict, including air strikes
and even, in an extreme case, intervention by ground forces.

   While NATO could draw upon a broad array of forces in Europe and
the United States for any mission in Kosovo, the alliance has
learned much from the air strikes and subsequent peacekeeping
mission next door in Bosnia.

   In Luxembourg late last month, NATO's foreign ministers ordered
military commanders to draw up plans for ``preventive deployments''
in Albania or Macedonia that explicitly excluded placing troops in
Kosovo. But with Milosevic's crackdown in Kosovo having intensified
last week, their mandate has now grown to include plans for force
in or over Kosovo itself.

   The Yugoslav government began its crackdown in February. Since
then, according to intelligence estimates, 9,000 to 11,000 Yugoslav
army troops have surged into Kosovo, backed by 175 tanks, 200
armored personnel carriers and 120 artillery batteries, as well as
7,000 to 10,000 special police or paramilitary troops. By
comparison, the Kosovo Liberation Army, the separatist group
fighting for independence, is believed to number no more than
2,000.

   Although the planning has only just begun, American and NATO
officials said NATO was unlikely to order a broad attack on targets
throughout Serbia as a way to punish Milosevic or compel him to
back down.

   A more likely option, the officials said, would be to establish
a zone in Kosovo, like those in Iraq, where movement of aircraft
and heavy weapons like tanks and artillery was restricted and the
constraints were enforced from the air. That could still require
attacks on air defenses in Serbia, however.

   Many of the options have drawbacks that have raised serious
reservations among military commanders in NATO and at the Pentagon.
An ``exclusion zone,'' for instance, could create a haven for the
Kosovo Liberation Army in its fight for independence, which neither
the United States nor the rest of NATO supports. ``We have to craft
a policy that deals with both sides equally,'' a senior
administration official said Thursday.

   Although the planning appears to be accelerating, the officials
insisted that NATO's political leaders still needed to reach a
consensus on what NATO hopes to accomplish with military strikes.
For now, there is not even agreement on whether NATO would have the
legal authority to intervene in what most consider a civil war.

   ``Before you talk about military action in Kosovo, you have to
cross two bridges,'' the senior administration official said.
``First, you have to figure out the legal basis for doing anything.
Second, NATO has to figure out what its political objective is. Do
we just want a cease-fire? Do we want a cease-fire followed by some
kind of autonomy for Kosovo? Do we want something else?'' &QL;
',
			body: '


  (See also KOSOVO-NATO, KOSOVO-LANDMINES, KOSOVO-RUSSIA) 
(th) 
 By STEVEN LEE MYERS    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Three years ago, NATO jets pounded Bosnian Serb
separatists into submission, bombarding their heavy weapons,
ammunition depots, supply routes and lines of communication until
their leaders agreed to make peace with Bosnia-Herzegovina's
Muslims and Croats.

   Now, in a neighboring part of the Balkans, NATO is once again
weighing the use of force, this time to stop the Yugoslav
government's crackdown on ethnic Albanian separatists in the
province of Kosovo. American and NATO officials say their planning
is focusing on more or less the same strategy as in Bosnia.

   But while there are similarities between the violence in Kosovo
and the war in Bosnia, there are also significant differences. And
those differences, when coupled with the political and legal
hurdles to any international response to the Yugoslav army's sweep
through Kosovo to put down an internal rebellion, have complicated
the military planning, these officials said, speaking on condition
of anonymity.

   First of all, the Yugoslav army _ the successor of the unified
armed forces of Yugoslavia before its breakup _ is much better
organized, trained and equipped than the Bosnian Serbs ever were,
greatly increasing the risk to NATO forces involved in air strikes
or any other military action.

   Unlike the war in Bosnia, the Yugoslav government's campaign in
the predominantly ethnic Albanian province of Kosovo lacks dug-in
front lines separating warring armies.

   Many of the forces taking part are Serbian police and
paramilitary units. And while the Yugoslav army has used tanks,
helicopters and heavy artillery to shell villages along Kosovo's
border with Albania, these forces are not heavily concentrated, and
they are continuously on the move.

   That, the officials said, would make it difficult, if not
impossible, to find and destroy the bulk of the Yugoslav forces _
if that is even the objective, which is far from clear. ``It's not
easy stuff to hit,'' a NATO military official said in Brussels on
Thursday.

   Also, any NATO attack is unlikely to cut off the supply lines
from central Serbia to the Yugoslav forces in Kosovo, Serbia's
southernmost province, since there are no natural barriers like
rivers separating the rolling hills and broad plains of Kosovo from
the rest of Yugoslavia. By contrast, in Bosnia, NATO's commanders
contemplated bombing bridges over the Drina River that linked the
Bosnian Serbs to their sponsors in Serbia.

   For now the hope is that a strong threat of force alone will be
enough to persuade Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic to ease
his government's suppression of Kosovo. The decision Thursday by
NATO's defense ministers to stage a vast military exercise in
neighboring Albania and Macedonia _ including simulated air strikes
_ is clearly meant more as a show of force than a practice run.

   ``It's not a rehearsal for anything,'' the Pentagon's spokesman,
Kenneth Bacon, said Thursday.

   Still, at Thursday's meeting at NATO's headquarters in Brussels,
the defense ministers ordered commanders to draw up a series of
military options to try to end the conflict, including air strikes
and even, in an extreme case, intervention by ground forces.

   While NATO could draw upon a broad array of forces in Europe and
the United States for any mission in Kosovo, the alliance has
learned much from the air strikes and subsequent peacekeeping
mission next door in Bosnia.

   In Luxembourg late last month, NATO's foreign ministers ordered
military commanders to draw up plans for ``preventive deployments''
in Albania or Macedonia that explicitly excluded placing troops in
Kosovo. But with Milosevic's crackdown in Kosovo having intensified
last week, their mandate has now grown to include plans for force
in or over Kosovo itself.

   The Yugoslav government began its crackdown in February. Since
then, according to intelligence estimates, 9,000 to 11,000 Yugoslav
army troops have surged into Kosovo, backed by 175 tanks, 200
armored personnel carriers and 120 artillery batteries, as well as
7,000 to 10,000 special police or paramilitary troops. By
comparison, the Kosovo Liberation Army, the separatist group
fighting for independence, is believed to number no more than
2,000.

   Although the planning has only just begun, American and NATO
officials said NATO was unlikely to order a broad attack on targets
throughout Serbia as a way to punish Milosevic or compel him to
back down.

   A more likely option, the officials said, would be to establish
a zone in Kosovo, like those in Iraq, where movement of aircraft
and heavy weapons like tanks and artillery was restricted and the
constraints were enforced from the air. That could still require
attacks on air defenses in Serbia, however.

   Many of the options have drawbacks that have raised serious
reservations among military commanders in NATO and at the Pentagon.
An ``exclusion zone,'' for instance, could create a haven for the
Kosovo Liberation Army in its fight for independence, which neither
the United States nor the rest of NATO supports. ``We have to craft
a policy that deals with both sides equally,'' a senior
administration official said Thursday.

   Although the planning appears to be accelerating, the officials
insisted that NATO's political leaders still needed to reach a
consensus on what NATO hopes to accomplish with military strikes.
For now, there is not even agreement on whether NATO would have the
legal authority to intervene in what most consider a civil war.

   ``Before you talk about military action in Kosovo, you have to
cross two bridges,'' the senior administration official said.
``First, you have to figure out the legal basis for doing anything.
Second, NATO has to figure out what its political objective is. Do
we just want a cease-fire? Do we want a cease-fire followed by some
kind of autonomy for Kosovo? Do we want something else?'' &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0317 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:56 ',
			header: '
A5443 &Cx1f; taf-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CHINA-CONGRESS-ART-NY     06-11 1106
',
			slug: ' BC-CHINA-CONGRESS-ART-NYT ',
			headline: '
(ATTN: N.C.)  
 HELMS ATTACKS CLINTON ON SATELLITE EXPORTS TO CHINA 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ The chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee accused the Clinton administration Thursday of shielding
China from sanctions that could block Chinese companies from
launching U.S. satellites.

   The chairman, Sen. Jesse Helms, contended that the
administration had turned a blind eye to China's missile sales to
Pakistan and Iran over the last several years in order to preserve
ties with Beijing.

   The North Carolina Republican's accusation came on the same day
that the White House defended waivers that President Clinton
approved between 1993 and 1996 that allowed U.S. companies to
launch their satellites on Chinese missiles.

   Several congressional committees are examining another waiver
that Clinton approved last February to permit Loral Space and
Communications and Hughes Electronics to launch a satellite in
China.

   While the waiver was under consideration, the Justice Department
voiced concern that granting it would undercut a criminal inquiry
into whether the two companies had disclosed sensitive technology
to the Chinese.

   Republicans have tried to link the waiver to political interests
by pointing out that Loral's chief executive, Bernard Schwartz, was
the Democrats' top individual donor in 1996. Schwartz and the
Clinton administration have denied any such connection.

   Administration officials insist that the controversy over the
Loral waiver was an anomaly in an otherwise routine process.
Indeed, no company appealing for a waiver, first from President
Bush and later from President Clinton, has ever been denied.

   A review of recently declassified administration documents
delivered to Congress this week shows that the reasons given for
the Clinton waivers varied little from the reasons given by the
Bush administration: enhancing U.S. global leadership in
telecommunications, encouraging China to stop its missile sales,
promoting bilateral relations and helping the U.S. satellite
industry.

   Many of these issues swirling around Capitol Hill were cast in
relief Thursday at the Foreign Relations Committee hearing, the
latest in a multipronged congressional inquiry into whether
sensitive technology was disclosed to China and, if so, why.

   Senators focused Thursday on the White House's sometimes
conflicting goals of combating the spread of missiles, promoting
the U.S. satellite industry and maintaining good relations with
Beijing.

   At the heart of Helms' accusations is the administration's
handling of intelligence information that China sent 34 M-11
medium-range ballistic missiles to Pakistan in late 1992.

   In August 1993 the Clinton administration imposed sanctions on
China for selling M-11 missile parts, but not complete missiles,
which would have called for far stricter measures, including the
end of all satellite exports.

   Administration officials have repeatedly insisted that the proof
needed for stronger sanctions did not exist. But intelligence
officials have always contended that their findings were ignored
because tougher sanctions would have ruptured U.S.-Chinese
relations.

   ``No administration likes automatic sanctions, because they
limit flexibility in negotiating,'' Gordon Oehler, the CIA's former
top expert on countering the spread of weapons, told the senators
Thursday.

   Oehler said he was ``virtually certain'' that China had shipped
complete missiles to Pakistan, not just parts or technology.

   Helms said, ``The administration has sought to shield China, and
the U.S. satellite vendors, from the effects of U.S. sanctions.''

   The reported missile sale and the dispute between policy-makers
and intelligence analysts have been disclosed before. But the
context of the argument is different now.

   Against this backdrop, the documents that the administration
released to Congress this week offer a window into the competing
pressures on Clinton in 1993 when he considered granting his first
waiver, for the Chinese launching of communications satellites made
by Motorola and Martin-Marietta.

   The documents' contents were first reported Thursday by The
Washington Post.

   A July 1, 1993, memo to Clinton from Anthony Lake, who was the
national security adviser, and Robert Rubin, who was the head of
the National Economic Council, described the pros and cons of a
waiver, even as officials expected sanctions to be imposed on
China.

   ``At this point we must balance U.S. competitive concerns
against a strong but not yet conclusive case for sanctioning
China,'' the two advisers wrote in the memo. ``The waivers act as
an incentive for China to deliver'' on its promises to stop exports
of missiles and missile parts, ``deter China from renouncing those
commitments and create useful leverage, as we continue to
investigate this matter,'' the memo added.

   But the welfare of the satellite makers also weighed heavily on
the administration. Lake and Rubin declared an ``urgent'' economic
consequence of delay: Without a waiver by July 5, 1993, Motorola
faced a $45 million ``nonperformance'' penalty.

   In addition, a June 29, 1993, memo from the National Security
Council staff said the Motorola project would support 4,500 jobs
and the Martin-Marietta project 1,300 jobs.

   The memo to Clinton was blunt about possible pitfalls: ``There
are risks to granting these waivers,'' the memo said. Congress
could interpret the waiver as ``backsliding'' on a commitment to
ensure that China kept its promises to curb missile sales. ``It
would also be embarrassing to grant the license and then impose
sanctions a short time later,'' the memo said.

   But Clinton's advisers were willing to take these risks, in
large part because they believed they could later stop the deal if
needed.

   ``In terms of economic benefit and nonproliferation interests,
we believe we should approve the waivers now,'' the memo said.
``Since the satellites will not be exported until 1995 at the
earliest, there is ample time to sanction China and prevent the
exports from taking place, should that be necessary.''

   Clinton approved the waiver the next day, July 2, 1993. The
State Department imposed sanctions on China on Aug. 24, 1993,
slowing the exports. The sanctions were lifted in 1994. The
Motorola satellites were not launched until December 1997.
',
			body: '


  (See also CHINA-CLINTON) 
(ART ADV: Photo is being sent to NYT photo clients. Non-subscribers
can make individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(lb) 
 By ERIC SCHMITT   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ The chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee accused the Clinton administration Thursday of shielding
China from sanctions that could block Chinese companies from
launching U.S. satellites.

   The chairman, Sen. Jesse Helms, contended that the
administration had turned a blind eye to China's missile sales to
Pakistan and Iran over the last several years in order to preserve
ties with Beijing.

   The North Carolina Republican's accusation came on the same day
that the White House defended waivers that President Clinton
approved between 1993 and 1996 that allowed U.S. companies to
launch their satellites on Chinese missiles.

   Several congressional committees are examining another waiver
that Clinton approved last February to permit Loral Space and
Communications and Hughes Electronics to launch a satellite in
China.

   While the waiver was under consideration, the Justice Department
voiced concern that granting it would undercut a criminal inquiry
into whether the two companies had disclosed sensitive technology
to the Chinese.

   Republicans have tried to link the waiver to political interests
by pointing out that Loral's chief executive, Bernard Schwartz, was
the Democrats' top individual donor in 1996. Schwartz and the
Clinton administration have denied any such connection.

   Administration officials insist that the controversy over the
Loral waiver was an anomaly in an otherwise routine process.
Indeed, no company appealing for a waiver, first from President
Bush and later from President Clinton, has ever been denied.

   A review of recently declassified administration documents
delivered to Congress this week shows that the reasons given for
the Clinton waivers varied little from the reasons given by the
Bush administration: enhancing U.S. global leadership in
telecommunications, encouraging China to stop its missile sales,
promoting bilateral relations and helping the U.S. satellite
industry.

   Many of these issues swirling around Capitol Hill were cast in
relief Thursday at the Foreign Relations Committee hearing, the
latest in a multipronged congressional inquiry into whether
sensitive technology was disclosed to China and, if so, why.

   Senators focused Thursday on the White House's sometimes
conflicting goals of combating the spread of missiles, promoting
the U.S. satellite industry and maintaining good relations with
Beijing.

   At the heart of Helms' accusations is the administration's
handling of intelligence information that China sent 34 M-11
medium-range ballistic missiles to Pakistan in late 1992.

   In August 1993 the Clinton administration imposed sanctions on
China for selling M-11 missile parts, but not complete missiles,
which would have called for far stricter measures, including the
end of all satellite exports.

   Administration officials have repeatedly insisted that the proof
needed for stronger sanctions did not exist. But intelligence
officials have always contended that their findings were ignored
because tougher sanctions would have ruptured U.S.-Chinese
relations.

   ``No administration likes automatic sanctions, because they
limit flexibility in negotiating,'' Gordon Oehler, the CIA's former
top expert on countering the spread of weapons, told the senators
Thursday.

   Oehler said he was ``virtually certain'' that China had shipped
complete missiles to Pakistan, not just parts or technology.

   Helms said, ``The administration has sought to shield China, and
the U.S. satellite vendors, from the effects of U.S. sanctions.''

   The reported missile sale and the dispute between policy-makers
and intelligence analysts have been disclosed before. But the
context of the argument is different now.

   Against this backdrop, the documents that the administration
released to Congress this week offer a window into the competing
pressures on Clinton in 1993 when he considered granting his first
waiver, for the Chinese launching of communications satellites made
by Motorola and Martin-Marietta.

   The documents' contents were first reported Thursday by The
Washington Post.

   A July 1, 1993, memo to Clinton from Anthony Lake, who was the
national security adviser, and Robert Rubin, who was the head of
the National Economic Council, described the pros and cons of a
waiver, even as officials expected sanctions to be imposed on
China.

   ``At this point we must balance U.S. competitive concerns
against a strong but not yet conclusive case for sanctioning
China,'' the two advisers wrote in the memo. ``The waivers act as
an incentive for China to deliver'' on its promises to stop exports
of missiles and missile parts, ``deter China from renouncing those
commitments and create useful leverage, as we continue to
investigate this matter,'' the memo added.

   But the welfare of the satellite makers also weighed heavily on
the administration. Lake and Rubin declared an ``urgent'' economic
consequence of delay: Without a waiver by July 5, 1993, Motorola
faced a $45 million ``nonperformance'' penalty.

   In addition, a June 29, 1993, memo from the National Security
Council staff said the Motorola project would support 4,500 jobs
and the Martin-Marietta project 1,300 jobs.

   The memo to Clinton was blunt about possible pitfalls: ``There
are risks to granting these waivers,'' the memo said. Congress
could interpret the waiver as ``backsliding'' on a commitment to
ensure that China kept its promises to curb missile sales. ``It
would also be embarrassing to grant the license and then impose
sanctions a short time later,'' the memo said.

   But Clinton's advisers were willing to take these risks, in
large part because they believed they could later stop the deal if
needed.

   ``In terms of economic benefit and nonproliferation interests,
we believe we should approve the waivers now,'' the memo said.
``Since the satellites will not be exported until 1995 at the
earliest, there is ample time to sanction China and prevent the
exports from taking place, should that be necessary.''

   Clinton approved the waiver the next day, July 2, 1993. The
State Department imposed sanctions on China on Aug. 24, 1993,
slowing the exports. The sanctions were lifted in 1994. The
Motorola satellites were not launched until December 1997.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0318 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:57 ',
			header: '
A5446 &Cx1f; taf-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-RUSSIA-JOURNALIST-NYT     06-11 0710
',
			slug: ' BC-RUSSIA-JOURNALIST-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   MOSCOW _ For several years Moscow-based journalist rights groups
have pressed the government to help Larisa Yudina, a newspaper
editor in the southern region of Kalmykia who suffered repeated
harassment by local authorities, in clear violation of Russia's
press law.

   But it was only this week, after Mrs. Yudina, 52, had been found
slain beside a pond outside the city of Elitsa in Lamykian, that
Moscow took note of the warnings that the only opposition newspaper
in the region was in serious danger.

   After Mrs. Yudina's body, with a fractured skull and knife
wounds, was identified on late Monday night, Interior Minister
Sergei Stepashin said the murder was clearly a contract killing,
and ``in essence'' political. In a report delivered to Parliament
Thursday, an official from chief prosecutor's office said three
suspects being held in the case had links to the local government
headed by Kirsan Ilyumzhinov, one of the most flamboyant regional
potentates in Russia.

   For those who have closely followed Mrs. Yudina's battle with
Kalmyk authorities, those conclusions had a hollow ring.

   ``For three years we have been telling federal authorities about
the total violation of Russia press law in Kalmykia,'' Pavel
Gutiontov, chairman of the Journalists Rights Committee, said.
``And in all these years the federal authorities have done nothing.
Nobody wanted to get involved. It is all very well to say fine
words about freedom of the press, but this could only happen
because of a lack of political will in Moscow.''

   Late last year the Glasnost Defense Fund, a private group that
defends press freedom in Russia, published a booklet that
identified 10 violations of the press law by Kalmyk authorities in
their dealings with the newspaper Soviet Kalmykia.

   ``There was no reaction,'' the president of the fund, Aleksei
Simonov, said. ``And the saddest part was that there was zero
reaction from her colleagues. That is the great problem in this
country where a person who is to be heard has to be silenced
first.''

   Other regional governments have also suppressed opposition
newspapers with impunity, Simonov said, pointing to the case of
Bashkortostan. There the local president, Muraza Rakhimov, is
running for re-election on Sunday virtually unopposed, after three
rival candidates have been removed from the ballot for technical
reasons.

   Mrs. Yudina came under pressure from Kalmyk authorities for her
investigations into the business dealings of Ilyumzhinov's
government, in particular his plan to create an offshore zone in
the republic, which is on the steppes north of the Caspian Sea and
has a mostly Buddhist population of 320,000. Ilyumzhinov also plans
to build a Chess City that will house an international chess
tournament this year.

   Mrs. Yudina, who worked at Soviet Kalmykia in the Soviet era,
had became the lone public voice of opposition in Kalmykia in
recent years, after Ilyumzhinov's election in 1993. The worst
harassment occurred soon after the election, when someone fired a
pistol at the newspaper office, and Mrs. Yudina's apartment was set
on fire.

   Later the newspaper was pushed out of its printing plant and had
to find plants in neighboring regions, with copies distributed from
the back of Mrs. Yudina's car. The newspaper's assets were seized
after it had been sued for publishing derogatory remarks about a
distinguished Kalmyk poet, and its offices were sealed.

   ``She published very harsh criticism, which was very one
sided,'' said Erdni Shamakov, chief editor of Izvestia Kalmykii,
which is loyal to the local government. Shamakov said the problems
of Soviet Kalmykia, with a circulation of 3,000 to 4,000, were
largely economic, although he conceded that Mrs. Yudina had been
pressured ``by farmers, banks and local officials, too.''

   Based on initial findings from the murder investigation,
Shamakov said he doubted that the killing was political.

   Mrs. Yudina had recently become a local co-chairwoman of a
national liberal party headed by Grigory Yavlinsky, who this week
called her the victim of a political assassination.
',
			body: '

  
 SLAIN EDITOR MAKES MOSCOW TAKE NOTICE  (ja) 
 By CELESTINE BOHLEN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   MOSCOW _ For several years Moscow-based journalist rights groups
have pressed the government to help Larisa Yudina, a newspaper
editor in the southern region of Kalmykia who suffered repeated
harassment by local authorities, in clear violation of Russia's
press law.

   But it was only this week, after Mrs. Yudina, 52, had been found
slain beside a pond outside the city of Elitsa in Lamykian, that
Moscow took note of the warnings that the only opposition newspaper
in the region was in serious danger.

   After Mrs. Yudina's body, with a fractured skull and knife
wounds, was identified on late Monday night, Interior Minister
Sergei Stepashin said the murder was clearly a contract killing,
and ``in essence'' political. In a report delivered to Parliament
Thursday, an official from chief prosecutor's office said three
suspects being held in the case had links to the local government
headed by Kirsan Ilyumzhinov, one of the most flamboyant regional
potentates in Russia.

   For those who have closely followed Mrs. Yudina's battle with
Kalmyk authorities, those conclusions had a hollow ring.

   ``For three years we have been telling federal authorities about
the total violation of Russia press law in Kalmykia,'' Pavel
Gutiontov, chairman of the Journalists Rights Committee, said.
``And in all these years the federal authorities have done nothing.
Nobody wanted to get involved. It is all very well to say fine
words about freedom of the press, but this could only happen
because of a lack of political will in Moscow.''

   Late last year the Glasnost Defense Fund, a private group that
defends press freedom in Russia, published a booklet that
identified 10 violations of the press law by Kalmyk authorities in
their dealings with the newspaper Soviet Kalmykia.

   ``There was no reaction,'' the president of the fund, Aleksei
Simonov, said. ``And the saddest part was that there was zero
reaction from her colleagues. That is the great problem in this
country where a person who is to be heard has to be silenced
first.''

   Other regional governments have also suppressed opposition
newspapers with impunity, Simonov said, pointing to the case of
Bashkortostan. There the local president, Muraza Rakhimov, is
running for re-election on Sunday virtually unopposed, after three
rival candidates have been removed from the ballot for technical
reasons.

   Mrs. Yudina came under pressure from Kalmyk authorities for her
investigations into the business dealings of Ilyumzhinov's
government, in particular his plan to create an offshore zone in
the republic, which is on the steppes north of the Caspian Sea and
has a mostly Buddhist population of 320,000. Ilyumzhinov also plans
to build a Chess City that will house an international chess
tournament this year.

   Mrs. Yudina, who worked at Soviet Kalmykia in the Soviet era,
had became the lone public voice of opposition in Kalmykia in
recent years, after Ilyumzhinov's election in 1993. The worst
harassment occurred soon after the election, when someone fired a
pistol at the newspaper office, and Mrs. Yudina's apartment was set
on fire.

   Later the newspaper was pushed out of its printing plant and had
to find plants in neighboring regions, with copies distributed from
the back of Mrs. Yudina's car. The newspaper's assets were seized
after it had been sued for publishing derogatory remarks about a
distinguished Kalmyk poet, and its offices were sealed.

   ``She published very harsh criticism, which was very one
sided,'' said Erdni Shamakov, chief editor of Izvestia Kalmykii,
which is loyal to the local government. Shamakov said the problems
of Soviet Kalmykia, with a circulation of 3,000 to 4,000, were
largely economic, although he conceded that Mrs. Yudina had been
pressured ``by farmers, banks and local officials, too.''

   Based on initial findings from the murder investigation,
Shamakov said he doubted that the killing was political.

   Mrs. Yudina had recently become a local co-chairwoman of a
national liberal party headed by Grigory Yavlinsky, who this week
called her the victim of a political assassination.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0319 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:58 ',
			header: '
A5447 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BEANIE-DISNEY-LADN     06-11 0324
',
			slug: ' BC-BEANIE-DISNEY-LADN ',
			headline: '
DISNEY TO RETIRE MICKEY, MINNIE BEAN BAG TOYS
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ The Beanie wars have heated up as entertainment
giant Walt Disney Co. announced it is retiring a dozen of its older
Mini Bean Bag characters, including Mickey and Minnie.

   The announcement Thursday in nearby Glendale means the
entertainment giant, which started selling the plush toys at its
Disney Stores last September and now has more than 80 versions,
will stop producing the marquee duo along with the Seven Dwarfs and
three characters from ``Bambi'' _ Bambi, Thumper and Flower. Stock
at the 660-plus stores will be sold at the usual $6 price until
they run out.

   Disney Stores president Thomas Heymann said the retirements _
the company's first _ will give the chain shelf space to introduce
new characters. But Robert Brill II, manager of the KC Kings
collectibles store in Ventura in neighboring Ventura County, said
the move is not surprising amid the collecting frenzy for the toys.

   ``We're seeing just about everything recognizable come on to the
market, even things like the Energizer Bunny and Pillsbury
Doughboy,'' Brill said. He estimated Disney's retirements would
double their price at collector stores to the $20 range.

   Disney's move follows a three-week frenzy over McDonald's second
Teenie Beanie Happy Meal campaign, in which an estimated 150
million toys were sold out in two weeks.

   Some trackers believe the Beanie phenomenon is here to stay
rather than being a hit-and-fade fad like Pogs or Pet Rocks. But
Harry Rinker, president of Rinker Enterprises and publisher of a
guide to collectibles prices, believes the speculative bubble is
collapsing because the market has been flooded.

   ``Prices are starting to fall at flea markets,'' Rinker said.
``In five years, no one's going to care.''
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By DAVE McNARY  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ The Beanie wars have heated up as entertainment
giant Walt Disney Co. announced it is retiring a dozen of its older
Mini Bean Bag characters, including Mickey and Minnie.

   The announcement Thursday in nearby Glendale means the
entertainment giant, which started selling the plush toys at its
Disney Stores last September and now has more than 80 versions,
will stop producing the marquee duo along with the Seven Dwarfs and
three characters from ``Bambi'' _ Bambi, Thumper and Flower. Stock
at the 660-plus stores will be sold at the usual $6 price until
they run out.

   Disney Stores president Thomas Heymann said the retirements _
the company's first _ will give the chain shelf space to introduce
new characters. But Robert Brill II, manager of the KC Kings
collectibles store in Ventura in neighboring Ventura County, said
the move is not surprising amid the collecting frenzy for the toys.

   ``We're seeing just about everything recognizable come on to the
market, even things like the Energizer Bunny and Pillsbury
Doughboy,'' Brill said. He estimated Disney's retirements would
double their price at collector stores to the $20 range.

   Disney's move follows a three-week frenzy over McDonald's second
Teenie Beanie Happy Meal campaign, in which an estimated 150
million toys were sold out in two weeks.

   Some trackers believe the Beanie phenomenon is here to stay
rather than being a hit-and-fade fad like Pogs or Pet Rocks. But
Harry Rinker, president of Rinker Enterprises and publisher of a
guide to collectibles prices, believes the speculative bubble is
collapsing because the market has been flooded.

   ``Prices are starting to fall at flea markets,'' Rinker said.
``In five years, no one's going to care.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0320 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:58 ',
			header: '
A5451 &Cx1f; tad-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BRADLEY-COLUMN-COX     06-11 0568
',
			slug: ' BC-BRADLEY-COLUMN-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   ATLANTA -- To nobody in particular, Gio Tani says: ``Mama mia.''
To the bank of TVs, he shouts: ``Come on, you spaghetti-benders!
Let's go!'' To the bartender, he says: ``Rum-and-Coke. I need it.''

   Chile's Marcelo Salas has just outjumped Fabio Cannavaro and
loosed a stunning header. Italy, hugely favored, trails 2-1 in its
World Cup opener. An ocean away, Gio Tani sips his drink. ``In
Italy right now,'' he says, ``they're going nuts.''

   Gio _ a truncation of Giovanni _ was born in Lucca, which is in
Tuscany. He came to the United States in 1954 to play, of all
things, baseball. (He'd learned the game from a lieutenant colonel
in the occupying U.S. Army.) He arrived as a catcher, stayed on as
a chef. For the last nine years he has worked at Chicago Sports Bar
and Grill, which in his honor is the Atlanta HQ of the Azzurri _
the Italian national team.

   Alas, the Azzurri are in arrears. Gio Tani still wears his
apron, having prepared the buffet, but has settled at the bar.
Around his neck is a green-and-red scarf bearing the words ``Forza,
Italia!'' (``Go, Italy!'') Gio and friends _ Frank in the tie,
Enrico from Naples in the Italy T-shirt, Antonio from Tuscany in
the blue jersey bearing team captain Paolo Maldini's No. 3 _ are
watching along with the luncheon crowd and are apoplectic.

   ``How's your heart?'' Gio asks Frank. ``Mine goes up and down.''

   ``That's OK,'' Frank says. ``I'll come to your funeral.''

   Americans regard the World Cup, if we regard it at all, as a
quaint diversion. The rest of the globe takes it no less seriously
than life itself. The group at Chicago SB&AMP;G roared when Italy went
up 1-nil after 10 minutes, groaned when Salas equalized to end the
first half. Now, Italy behind and time flying, there are equal
parts hope and dread.

   ``We're gonna score,'' Gio says. ``Italy's gonna score!''

   The Azzurri attack. A cross is made to empty space. Gio snorts.
``What is on the right side of the field? Nothing but grass and
flowers!''

   He looks down the bar. ``How's your spaghetti? Pretty good?'' he
says to a patron, who hasn't yet tried it. ``It's seafood
spaghetti,'' says Gio, prompting. The guy takes a bite, pronounces
it delicious. ``Good,'' Gio says. ``Thank you.''

   Back to the game. Filippo Inzaghi takes a lovely Roberto Baggio
pass and shoots weakly. ``Lift the ball!'' Gio says. ``They should
cut his foot off!''

   Gio gestures to the Italian banner hanging from a beam. ``We
should move the flag. It's bad luck.'' Almost at that exact moment,
luck does a 180. Chile is called for a hand ball. Italy gets a
penalty kick.

   There's a gasp when everyone sees who's to take the penalty _
Baggio, whose miss in the shootout with Brazil doomed Italy four
years ago. ``Baggio!'' Gio says. ``We lost the World Cup on Baggio!
Mama mia, call 911! I'm gonna have a heart attack!''

   Baggio swings his foot. Goal, Italia. The Azzurri escape with a
draw. Gio orders another drink, then eyes the reporter sitting
alongside. ``Today's really my day off,'' he says by way of
explanation, but there's none needed. This is the World Cup and, 44
years after coming to America, Gio Tani is Italian still.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Gio's day off spent living, dying with the Azzurri
 &HT;    By Mark Bradley
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATLANTA -- To nobody in particular, Gio Tani says: ``Mama mia.''
To the bank of TVs, he shouts: ``Come on, you spaghetti-benders!
Let's go!'' To the bartender, he says: ``Rum-and-Coke. I need it.''

   Chile's Marcelo Salas has just outjumped Fabio Cannavaro and
loosed a stunning header. Italy, hugely favored, trails 2-1 in its
World Cup opener. An ocean away, Gio Tani sips his drink. ``In
Italy right now,'' he says, ``they're going nuts.''

   Gio _ a truncation of Giovanni _ was born in Lucca, which is in
Tuscany. He came to the United States in 1954 to play, of all
things, baseball. (He'd learned the game from a lieutenant colonel
in the occupying U.S. Army.) He arrived as a catcher, stayed on as
a chef. For the last nine years he has worked at Chicago Sports Bar
and Grill, which in his honor is the Atlanta HQ of the Azzurri _
the Italian national team.

   Alas, the Azzurri are in arrears. Gio Tani still wears his
apron, having prepared the buffet, but has settled at the bar.
Around his neck is a green-and-red scarf bearing the words ``Forza,
Italia!'' (``Go, Italy!'') Gio and friends _ Frank in the tie,
Enrico from Naples in the Italy T-shirt, Antonio from Tuscany in
the blue jersey bearing team captain Paolo Maldini's No. 3 _ are
watching along with the luncheon crowd and are apoplectic.

   ``How's your heart?'' Gio asks Frank. ``Mine goes up and down.''

   ``That's OK,'' Frank says. ``I'll come to your funeral.''

   Americans regard the World Cup, if we regard it at all, as a
quaint diversion. The rest of the globe takes it no less seriously
than life itself. The group at Chicago SB&AMP;G roared when Italy went
up 1-nil after 10 minutes, groaned when Salas equalized to end the
first half. Now, Italy behind and time flying, there are equal
parts hope and dread.

   ``We're gonna score,'' Gio says. ``Italy's gonna score!''

   The Azzurri attack. A cross is made to empty space. Gio snorts.
``What is on the right side of the field? Nothing but grass and
flowers!''

   He looks down the bar. ``How's your spaghetti? Pretty good?'' he
says to a patron, who hasn't yet tried it. ``It's seafood
spaghetti,'' says Gio, prompting. The guy takes a bite, pronounces
it delicious. ``Good,'' Gio says. ``Thank you.''

   Back to the game. Filippo Inzaghi takes a lovely Roberto Baggio
pass and shoots weakly. ``Lift the ball!'' Gio says. ``They should
cut his foot off!''

   Gio gestures to the Italian banner hanging from a beam. ``We
should move the flag. It's bad luck.'' Almost at that exact moment,
luck does a 180. Chile is called for a hand ball. Italy gets a
penalty kick.

   There's a gasp when everyone sees who's to take the penalty _
Baggio, whose miss in the shootout with Brazil doomed Italy four
years ago. ``Baggio!'' Gio says. ``We lost the World Cup on Baggio!
Mama mia, call 911! I'm gonna have a heart attack!''

   Baggio swings his foot. Goal, Italia. The Azzurri escape with a
draw. Gio orders another drink, then eyes the reporter sitting
alongside. ``Today's really my day off,'' he says by way of
explanation, but there's none needed. This is the World Cup and, 44
years after coming to America, Gio Tani is Italian still.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0321 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:58 ',
			header: '
A5452 &Cx1f; tad-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BRAVES-BULLPEN-COX     06-11 0908
',
			slug: ' BC-BRAVES-BULLPEN-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   ATLANTA -- The first flaming arrow has yet to come over the
bullpen wall. The Atlanta Braves' relief corps hasn't lost a game
or blown a save in two weeks. The club, standing firm at 45-21, is
having its best start in history.

   Yet, they can hear the rumbling outside the gate, where the
bullpen has been in enduring crisis, perceived or otherwise,
throughout the decade. It has allowed six runs in the last three
games. The ERA is up to 4.24. The closer has been relieved of duty,
the only experienced left-hander confesses to being ``just as
confused any anybody.'' Half the crew works with one foot on the
rubber, the other foot in Richmond.

   They are the bullpen, and they feel what you feel.

   ``We might be putting a little more pressure on ourselves,''
Kerry Ligtenberg admitted, ``to get out of this little funk we're
in.''

   Define funk. No bullpen in the league is used so infrequently,
and Atlanta's save conversion (16 for 22, or 72.7 percent) is among
the five best in the NL. The walk-to-strikeout ratio (2.0) is
second in the league among winning teams. But ...

   The Braves bullpen middle name should be ``But.''

   ``It has to do with consistency,'' said Mike Cather, whose
first-year anniversary with the club does not come until July 12.
``What the starters have brought to this team is consistency, Cy
Youngs, domination. We've got a young bullpen. I mean, we've got
five or six guys who have playoff experience, yet only three of
them have more than a year's experience. Now it's just a matter of
finding consistency.

   ``Obviously, we've got great starters; we've got guys who can
hit and score runs. If you're looking for a weak link on the team,
then you're going to look for the bullpen. That's where we have the
least experience. But I'll tell you what. We have a lot of heart in
that pen, and I honestly believe we can do the job. I really do.''
Cather's best testimony comes from the 1997 postseason, when Braves
relievers threw 10 2/3 innings and did not allow a run. But of the
nine pitchers who threw at least an inning of relief last year,
four have left the organization. Replacements -- Brian Edmondson
and spring wonder Adam Butler -- have been unceremoniously
jettisoned. With Mark Wohlers' fate pegged to his improvement in a
set-up job, roles have become so blurred that Bobby Cox has
pondered using Dennis Martinez to close. He is 14 years younger
than Cox, 20 years older than John Rocker. ``I've thought about
(Martinez closing) a million times,'' Cox said. ``There's no
question he could do it.''

   That is actually a prevailing clubhouse opinion about the entire
bullpen. Players who have watched their World Series shares ebb and
flow on the quality of relief work have seen enough things to like
about this bullpen. During an 18-game streak in May, the same crew
worked up a 1.12 ERA.

   ``With this group we have'' Greg Maddux said, ``their stuff is
better than some of the older pens that we've had in the past. You
have to realize they're still gaining experience. I think over
time, they're going to continue to get better, learning how to
pitch, learning the hitters, even the lifestyle.''

   For all the arithmetic invented to gauge pitching, bullpen
efficiency is the hardest to reckon. An ERA won't reflect the
significance of the runs scored; a save-conversion percentage does
not determine the quality of the work. The New York Mets bullpen,
lauded for a 2.99 ERA, has an inferior conversion rate (71.4
percent) compared with Atlanta (72.7 percent). Houston has the best
conversion rate (83.3 percent), but has a Medicare 9-8 record.

   ``Early in the year, we pitched well and some people were saying
we might be one of the better bullpens in the league,'' Ligtenberg
said. ``Now we're struggling a little bit, and we're one of the
worst bullpens in the league. I just think it depends on what time
you see us.''

   Two notions signify to the bullpen that quieter nights lay
ahead. Wohlers, whose struggle has been excruciating (six hits,
eight walks, seven runs in 6 2/3 innings) since coming off the DL
on May 23, found the strike zone more easily in his last outing,
hinting that he might be coming around. Ligtenberg has been showing
himself to be a capable closer. ``Let's face it,'' Maddux said.
``When Wo is good, he's the best closer in the game.''

   The second move is Martinez's return to relief work. He had
assumed a special patriarchal role while in the bullpen; Martinez
has thrown 3,958 career innings, the rest of the relievers 742.
Before he returned to the rotation when John Smoltz went down, he
had allowed only three runs in his previous 15 relief innings.

   ``To be honest with you, when I was down there, we were
rolling,'' Martinez said. ``All of a sudden, when I got a chance to
start, I think it took away from the bullpen. I don't want to say
that's the reason (for the current swoon), but now that I'm going
back, we'll see what happens.''

   ``We have to get out there,'' Ligtenberg said, ``and have some
failures and be able to come back from them. It seems like now that
we're struggling a little bit, everybody's making kind of a big
deal about it.''

   But only if this is Atlanta and these are the 1990s.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Braves bullpen finds no relief from criticism
 &HT;    By Thomas Stinson
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATLANTA -- The first flaming arrow has yet to come over the
bullpen wall. The Atlanta Braves' relief corps hasn't lost a game
or blown a save in two weeks. The club, standing firm at 45-21, is
having its best start in history.

   Yet, they can hear the rumbling outside the gate, where the
bullpen has been in enduring crisis, perceived or otherwise,
throughout the decade. It has allowed six runs in the last three
games. The ERA is up to 4.24. The closer has been relieved of duty,
the only experienced left-hander confesses to being ``just as
confused any anybody.'' Half the crew works with one foot on the
rubber, the other foot in Richmond.

   They are the bullpen, and they feel what you feel.

   ``We might be putting a little more pressure on ourselves,''
Kerry Ligtenberg admitted, ``to get out of this little funk we're
in.''

   Define funk. No bullpen in the league is used so infrequently,
and Atlanta's save conversion (16 for 22, or 72.7 percent) is among
the five best in the NL. The walk-to-strikeout ratio (2.0) is
second in the league among winning teams. But ...

   The Braves bullpen middle name should be ``But.''

   ``It has to do with consistency,'' said Mike Cather, whose
first-year anniversary with the club does not come until July 12.
``What the starters have brought to this team is consistency, Cy
Youngs, domination. We've got a young bullpen. I mean, we've got
five or six guys who have playoff experience, yet only three of
them have more than a year's experience. Now it's just a matter of
finding consistency.

   ``Obviously, we've got great starters; we've got guys who can
hit and score runs. If you're looking for a weak link on the team,
then you're going to look for the bullpen. That's where we have the
least experience. But I'll tell you what. We have a lot of heart in
that pen, and I honestly believe we can do the job. I really do.''
Cather's best testimony comes from the 1997 postseason, when Braves
relievers threw 10 2/3 innings and did not allow a run. But of the
nine pitchers who threw at least an inning of relief last year,
four have left the organization. Replacements -- Brian Edmondson
and spring wonder Adam Butler -- have been unceremoniously
jettisoned. With Mark Wohlers' fate pegged to his improvement in a
set-up job, roles have become so blurred that Bobby Cox has
pondered using Dennis Martinez to close. He is 14 years younger
than Cox, 20 years older than John Rocker. ``I've thought about
(Martinez closing) a million times,'' Cox said. ``There's no
question he could do it.''

   That is actually a prevailing clubhouse opinion about the entire
bullpen. Players who have watched their World Series shares ebb and
flow on the quality of relief work have seen enough things to like
about this bullpen. During an 18-game streak in May, the same crew
worked up a 1.12 ERA.

   ``With this group we have'' Greg Maddux said, ``their stuff is
better than some of the older pens that we've had in the past. You
have to realize they're still gaining experience. I think over
time, they're going to continue to get better, learning how to
pitch, learning the hitters, even the lifestyle.''

   For all the arithmetic invented to gauge pitching, bullpen
efficiency is the hardest to reckon. An ERA won't reflect the
significance of the runs scored; a save-conversion percentage does
not determine the quality of the work. The New York Mets bullpen,
lauded for a 2.99 ERA, has an inferior conversion rate (71.4
percent) compared with Atlanta (72.7 percent). Houston has the best
conversion rate (83.3 percent), but has a Medicare 9-8 record.

   ``Early in the year, we pitched well and some people were saying
we might be one of the better bullpens in the league,'' Ligtenberg
said. ``Now we're struggling a little bit, and we're one of the
worst bullpens in the league. I just think it depends on what time
you see us.''

   Two notions signify to the bullpen that quieter nights lay
ahead. Wohlers, whose struggle has been excruciating (six hits,
eight walks, seven runs in 6 2/3 innings) since coming off the DL
on May 23, found the strike zone more easily in his last outing,
hinting that he might be coming around. Ligtenberg has been showing
himself to be a capable closer. ``Let's face it,'' Maddux said.
``When Wo is good, he's the best closer in the game.''

   The second move is Martinez's return to relief work. He had
assumed a special patriarchal role while in the bullpen; Martinez
has thrown 3,958 career innings, the rest of the relievers 742.
Before he returned to the rotation when John Smoltz went down, he
had allowed only three runs in his previous 15 relief innings.

   ``To be honest with you, when I was down there, we were
rolling,'' Martinez said. ``All of a sudden, when I got a chance to
start, I think it took away from the bullpen. I don't want to say
that's the reason (for the current swoon), but now that I'm going
back, we'll see what happens.''

   ``We have to get out there,'' Ligtenberg said, ``and have some
failures and be able to come back from them. It seems like now that
we're struggling a little bit, everybody's making kind of a big
deal about it.''

   But only if this is Atlanta and these are the 1990s.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0322 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:59 ',
			header: '
A5453 &Cx1f; tad-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HUMMER-COLUMN-COX     06-11 0573
',
			slug: ' BC-HUMMER-COLUMN-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   ATLANTA -- You be Chicago Bulls coach Phil Jackson. If it helps
to get into the role, take on his look by wearing a suit jacket
without taking it off the hanger. Read something in cuneiform.
Pretend you're just killing time with this job until the Brookings
Institution comes looking for some real octane in its think tank.

   There, now answer the question: Is winning really worth Dennis
Rodman?

   The NBA Final has become more a question of conscience than of
competition. The Bulls will win another ring, at the cost of
selling their soul to hell's power forward.

   It's easy from afar to ring the bell of righteousness. Surely,
'tis better to lose with dignity than to win by bowing to Rodman's
every viral eccentricity. Stand for something or fall for anything,
right? This guy is the carrier of chaos, the ultimate self-absorbed
athlete with a little cross-dressing on the side.

   Utah coach Jerry Sloan says he wouldn't put up with Rodman _
even for a title. Now, there's a particularly moot claim. It's like
the Marines announcing they'd never accept Axl Rose. Like there's
an actual choice involved.

   Rodman is most adept at harvesting loose basketballs and mocking
convention. Seems clear enough that a society that would celebrate
him runs a dangerous fever.

   But remember, you're Phil Jackson, and your job is not to tend
America's moral compass. It is to win championships. It is to lead
a franchise to new levels of accomplishment and profitability.
That's why coaches are hired, not ordained.

   You'd like to think you could win a championship with the guys
who actually show up to practice instead of traipsing off to be a
pro wrestling stooge. It may be a radical concept, but you would
prefer all the players do the little things like show up for a game
on time, stay on the bench when not on the floor and not spend
quite so many off hours rattling a pair of dice. You'd like not to
join in the street festivals that erupt when Rodman makes a few
fourth-quarter free throws.

   Then, all these high ideals run into one horrifying vision: That
of Toni Kukoc attempting defense at the end of an important game.

   Rodman is needed. Someone has to rebound now that Michael Jordan
is fallible. It's a dirty job, but who else is going to lean on
Karl Malone? Rodman is the perfect candidate, because there's no
telling where his body's been. Malone must remember some of the
movies from his high school health class, so he settles for the
outside jump shot instead of crashing into some possibly alien
strain of bacteria. Disgust is one of Rodman's best defensive
weapons.

   Maybe the Bulls could win without Rodman, but you're a coach,
and you're supposed to make it hard on the other team, not your
own.

   You're an NBA coach no less, so compromise is part of the job
description. You carried on five years ago when Jordan took off for
Atlantic City the morning before a playoff game against the Knicks.
You've seen Pippen through his various contract sulkings. And
you'll swallow ego, rewrite the rules and try to shrug off Rodman
for a few days more.

   You know that the ultimate trick is to use Rodman more than he
uses you.

   You win another championship. Then take a long shower.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Faustian choice: Winning or Rodman
 &HT;    By Steve Hummer
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATLANTA -- You be Chicago Bulls coach Phil Jackson. If it helps
to get into the role, take on his look by wearing a suit jacket
without taking it off the hanger. Read something in cuneiform.
Pretend you're just killing time with this job until the Brookings
Institution comes looking for some real octane in its think tank.

   There, now answer the question: Is winning really worth Dennis
Rodman?

   The NBA Final has become more a question of conscience than of
competition. The Bulls will win another ring, at the cost of
selling their soul to hell's power forward.

   It's easy from afar to ring the bell of righteousness. Surely,
'tis better to lose with dignity than to win by bowing to Rodman's
every viral eccentricity. Stand for something or fall for anything,
right? This guy is the carrier of chaos, the ultimate self-absorbed
athlete with a little cross-dressing on the side.

   Utah coach Jerry Sloan says he wouldn't put up with Rodman _
even for a title. Now, there's a particularly moot claim. It's like
the Marines announcing they'd never accept Axl Rose. Like there's
an actual choice involved.

   Rodman is most adept at harvesting loose basketballs and mocking
convention. Seems clear enough that a society that would celebrate
him runs a dangerous fever.

   But remember, you're Phil Jackson, and your job is not to tend
America's moral compass. It is to win championships. It is to lead
a franchise to new levels of accomplishment and profitability.
That's why coaches are hired, not ordained.

   You'd like to think you could win a championship with the guys
who actually show up to practice instead of traipsing off to be a
pro wrestling stooge. It may be a radical concept, but you would
prefer all the players do the little things like show up for a game
on time, stay on the bench when not on the floor and not spend
quite so many off hours rattling a pair of dice. You'd like not to
join in the street festivals that erupt when Rodman makes a few
fourth-quarter free throws.

   Then, all these high ideals run into one horrifying vision: That
of Toni Kukoc attempting defense at the end of an important game.

   Rodman is needed. Someone has to rebound now that Michael Jordan
is fallible. It's a dirty job, but who else is going to lean on
Karl Malone? Rodman is the perfect candidate, because there's no
telling where his body's been. Malone must remember some of the
movies from his high school health class, so he settles for the
outside jump shot instead of crashing into some possibly alien
strain of bacteria. Disgust is one of Rodman's best defensive
weapons.

   Maybe the Bulls could win without Rodman, but you're a coach,
and you're supposed to make it hard on the other team, not your
own.

   You're an NBA coach no less, so compromise is part of the job
description. You carried on five years ago when Jordan took off for
Atlantic City the morning before a playoff game against the Knicks.
You've seen Pippen through his various contract sulkings. And
you'll swallow ego, rewrite the rules and try to shrug off Rodman
for a few days more.

   You know that the ultimate trick is to use Rodman more than he
uses you.

   You win another championship. Then take a long shower.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0323 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:59 ',
			header: '
A5454 &Cx1f; tad-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NBA-LASTDANCE-COX     06-11 1062
',
			slug: ' BC-NBA-LASTDANCE-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   CHICAGO _ There is not much time left for the dynasty now. The
breakup is imminent, with demolition beginning possibly as early as
tonight. And like a high school graduation, a peculiar mix of pride
and sadness hovers above the occasion.

   Most indications are that management of the Chicago Bulls has an
earnest and confusing compulsion to break up the champions, meaning
that tonight's Game 5 of the NBA Finals against the Utah Jazz could
be more historic than being just the Bulls' sixth title in eight
years.

   Ultimately _ and most likely, depending on whom you believe _ a
victory would mark the end, prematurely, of the brilliant career of
guard Michael Jordan, 35. And it would signal the last game as
Bulls for coach Phil Jackson and forwards Scottie Pippen and Dennis
Rodman. And so, a certain amount of grieving could come with
achieving the ultimate in their profession.

   The end of an exhilarating odyssey, the beginning of new, empty
journeys.

   ``This is the time of season, after what seems like 140 games,
that you just want it to end,'' said Jackson, who opened the season
saying ``wild horses'' could not make him return to Chicago next
year. ``Then the emotion will follow. It's been a dramatic run, an
intense run. But this one is different. It could be, likely is, the
last dance. It's been a real difficult year. It's been very
pressure-filled. The emotions _ dealing with the outside things _
have produced trials.''

   But nothing unconquerable, it appears. With Jordan leading and
handling major scoring responsibilities, Rodman defending and
rebounding with a fervor, Pippen spinning sparkling all-around
games and Jackson holding it all together with aplomb, Chicago
defied all the skeptics who predicted the Bulls' demise after they
lost Game 1 to the Jazz last Wednesday.

   That they are 48 game minutes from the crescendo has turned the
doubters into believers that, with the team intact next season,
Chicago could reach the summit in 1998-99. Those who love the game
and understand the brilliance of the Bulls in general, and Jordan
in particular, have cringed at the thought of the Bulls next year
becoming, ``The Denver Nuggets,'' Rodman said. ``Without me,
Michael, Scottie and Phil, that what the Bulls would be.''

   Strangely enough, Rodman makes sense. And the sense around
Chicago is that Pippen is the determining factor in what the future
holds for the Bulls. Rodman gets an invite if everyone else does.
Jackson said he'd be interested in returning if Pippen commits to
coming back. Jordan said he would only play with Jackson, and it
would be ``a slap in the face'' to play without Pippen, a free
agent on July 1. Meanwhile, Pippen, wavers on his stance at times,
but on Thursday said: ``I don't have any intentions of coming back
here next season. I think this is the last run. I want to go out
and explore all the opportunities.''

   Pippen's desire to buck the Bulls stems from an acrimonious
relationship with the hierarchy known in Chicago as ``the two
Jerrys,'' owner Reinsdorf and general manager Krause. No one can
figure why they want Jackson out as coach or why they have
``disrespected'' Pippen _ to use his word _ and in the process, are
disenfranchising the best player in history.

   ``It's going to be hard for me to not look at (tonight) as my
last game,'' Jordan said. ``I'm going to think of it in a way that
we're finishing off a season. And what evolves over the summer will
make me think about what (tonight) actually meant. Either the
team's going to be broken up and Phil is going to go his way and
Scottie and I are going to go our way . . . . And believe me, when
it's finished, if this is the end, we're due a celebration.''

   It will be a celebration tainted with sadness for their
teammates, if not themselves.

   ``It's an ironic situation,'' guard Steve Kerr said. ``You want
to end the season in Game 5 with the championship, but you don't
want the whole thing to end. But if I had to say now what's going
to happen, I'd say this is it. It's over.''

   ``You never hope for a good thing to come to an end,'' guard Ron
Harper said. ``There's been a lot of stuff done and said this year,
but it's been fun. If this is it, we'll know we had three great
seasons. Hey, that's a lot.''

   While many fans seem almost bored with Chicago's 1990s
dominance, the purists wants more from M.J. and Co.

   ``If Michael hadn't gone to baseball, they'd be going for their
eighth title,'' said Kevin Loughery, who was Jordan's first NBA
coach. ``It's terrible to think that this could be his last game,
when he has several good years left in him.''

   This season might have taken years off Jackson's life. From the
first day he's dealt with injuries to Luc Longley and Pippen,
managed the unmanageable Rodman, feuded publicly with Reinsdorf and
Krause, all the while answering daily questions about his future.

   ``It's been a difficult year,'' Jackson said. ``I'm kind of
looking forward to going fishing.''

   But Jackson can't go fishing, Jordan golfing, Pippen team
shopping or Rodman -- well, no telling what he'd do -- until the
Bulls pull the plug on the dying Jazz. Until then, Jordan insisted
Thursday, all the talk about the future is moot.

   ``We'd like to get it done in Chicago, in front of our fans,''
Jordan said. ``To be where we are is a credit to Phil, with all
he's dealt with this year. And Scottie is a major reason we're
here. The harmony between the two of us is incomparable. . . . And
Dennis, I can't figure this guy out. One day he's wrestling, the
next he's defending. Yes, it can all be broken up, and I understand
why people want to talk about that.

   ``But at the moment, we've got to treat (tonight) like we're
finishing off a season and not the end. If this is my last game,
that has to be something to think about later. . . . We have to
finish the job.''

   And when the job's done and ``We Are The Champions'' is blaring
in the United Center air and the balloons and confetti are raining
down from the building's roof, a little bit of emptiness will creep
in and dampen it all.

   ``That's true,'' Rodman said, ``but it's been a hell of a run.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Ok, now what do we do?
 &HT;    By Curtis Bunn
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   CHICAGO _ There is not much time left for the dynasty now. The
breakup is imminent, with demolition beginning possibly as early as
tonight. And like a high school graduation, a peculiar mix of pride
and sadness hovers above the occasion.

   Most indications are that management of the Chicago Bulls has an
earnest and confusing compulsion to break up the champions, meaning
that tonight's Game 5 of the NBA Finals against the Utah Jazz could
be more historic than being just the Bulls' sixth title in eight
years.

   Ultimately _ and most likely, depending on whom you believe _ a
victory would mark the end, prematurely, of the brilliant career of
guard Michael Jordan, 35. And it would signal the last game as
Bulls for coach Phil Jackson and forwards Scottie Pippen and Dennis
Rodman. And so, a certain amount of grieving could come with
achieving the ultimate in their profession.

   The end of an exhilarating odyssey, the beginning of new, empty
journeys.

   ``This is the time of season, after what seems like 140 games,
that you just want it to end,'' said Jackson, who opened the season
saying ``wild horses'' could not make him return to Chicago next
year. ``Then the emotion will follow. It's been a dramatic run, an
intense run. But this one is different. It could be, likely is, the
last dance. It's been a real difficult year. It's been very
pressure-filled. The emotions _ dealing with the outside things _
have produced trials.''

   But nothing unconquerable, it appears. With Jordan leading and
handling major scoring responsibilities, Rodman defending and
rebounding with a fervor, Pippen spinning sparkling all-around
games and Jackson holding it all together with aplomb, Chicago
defied all the skeptics who predicted the Bulls' demise after they
lost Game 1 to the Jazz last Wednesday.

   That they are 48 game minutes from the crescendo has turned the
doubters into believers that, with the team intact next season,
Chicago could reach the summit in 1998-99. Those who love the game
and understand the brilliance of the Bulls in general, and Jordan
in particular, have cringed at the thought of the Bulls next year
becoming, ``The Denver Nuggets,'' Rodman said. ``Without me,
Michael, Scottie and Phil, that what the Bulls would be.''

   Strangely enough, Rodman makes sense. And the sense around
Chicago is that Pippen is the determining factor in what the future
holds for the Bulls. Rodman gets an invite if everyone else does.
Jackson said he'd be interested in returning if Pippen commits to
coming back. Jordan said he would only play with Jackson, and it
would be ``a slap in the face'' to play without Pippen, a free
agent on July 1. Meanwhile, Pippen, wavers on his stance at times,
but on Thursday said: ``I don't have any intentions of coming back
here next season. I think this is the last run. I want to go out
and explore all the opportunities.''

   Pippen's desire to buck the Bulls stems from an acrimonious
relationship with the hierarchy known in Chicago as ``the two
Jerrys,'' owner Reinsdorf and general manager Krause. No one can
figure why they want Jackson out as coach or why they have
``disrespected'' Pippen _ to use his word _ and in the process, are
disenfranchising the best player in history.

   ``It's going to be hard for me to not look at (tonight) as my
last game,'' Jordan said. ``I'm going to think of it in a way that
we're finishing off a season. And what evolves over the summer will
make me think about what (tonight) actually meant. Either the
team's going to be broken up and Phil is going to go his way and
Scottie and I are going to go our way . . . . And believe me, when
it's finished, if this is the end, we're due a celebration.''

   It will be a celebration tainted with sadness for their
teammates, if not themselves.

   ``It's an ironic situation,'' guard Steve Kerr said. ``You want
to end the season in Game 5 with the championship, but you don't
want the whole thing to end. But if I had to say now what's going
to happen, I'd say this is it. It's over.''

   ``You never hope for a good thing to come to an end,'' guard Ron
Harper said. ``There's been a lot of stuff done and said this year,
but it's been fun. If this is it, we'll know we had three great
seasons. Hey, that's a lot.''

   While many fans seem almost bored with Chicago's 1990s
dominance, the purists wants more from M.J. and Co.

   ``If Michael hadn't gone to baseball, they'd be going for their
eighth title,'' said Kevin Loughery, who was Jordan's first NBA
coach. ``It's terrible to think that this could be his last game,
when he has several good years left in him.''

   This season might have taken years off Jackson's life. From the
first day he's dealt with injuries to Luc Longley and Pippen,
managed the unmanageable Rodman, feuded publicly with Reinsdorf and
Krause, all the while answering daily questions about his future.

   ``It's been a difficult year,'' Jackson said. ``I'm kind of
looking forward to going fishing.''

   But Jackson can't go fishing, Jordan golfing, Pippen team
shopping or Rodman -- well, no telling what he'd do -- until the
Bulls pull the plug on the dying Jazz. Until then, Jordan insisted
Thursday, all the talk about the future is moot.

   ``We'd like to get it done in Chicago, in front of our fans,''
Jordan said. ``To be where we are is a credit to Phil, with all
he's dealt with this year. And Scottie is a major reason we're
here. The harmony between the two of us is incomparable. . . . And
Dennis, I can't figure this guy out. One day he's wrestling, the
next he's defending. Yes, it can all be broken up, and I understand
why people want to talk about that.

   ``But at the moment, we've got to treat (tonight) like we're
finishing off a season and not the end. If this is my last game,
that has to be something to think about later. . . . We have to
finish the job.''

   And when the job's done and ``We Are The Champions'' is blaring
in the United Center air and the balloons and confetti are raining
down from the building's roof, a little bit of emptiness will creep
in and dampen it all.

   ``That's true,'' Rodman said, ``but it's been a hell of a run.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0324 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:59 ',
			header: '
A5455 &Cx1f; tad-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NBA-TICKET-COX     06-11 0207
',
			slug: ' BC-NBA-TICKET-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   CHICAGO _ The prospect that the Bulls will win to provide
another NBA title in Chicago and possibly become the last game in
the remarkable career of Michael Jordan has rocketed ticket prices
for tonight's Game 5 of the NBA Finals into the stratosphere.

   Ticket brokers in Chicago said courtside seats are being sold
for $10,000 each. The worst seats in the United Center are being
sold for $450-$650.

   ``I've been here a while now, and I can believe it,'' reserve
Bulls center Bill Wennington said. ``With all that's happening, no
doubt I believe it.''

   The Chicago Sun-Times reported one man bought two seats _ for
himself and his 13-year-old son _ in the lower section of the
building for the bargain price of $6,000.

   ``It's history,'' Jud Buechler said. ``I'm treating it like it's
my last trip to the United Center with Michael as a teammate.

   To exemplify how much demand there is for the Bulls, Chicago
police on Thursday confiscated $4 million worth of counterfeit
Bulls merchandise.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Game 5 ticket prices sky high as fans anticipate Jordan finale
 &HT;    By Curtis Bunn
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   CHICAGO _ The prospect that the Bulls will win to provide
another NBA title in Chicago and possibly become the last game in
the remarkable career of Michael Jordan has rocketed ticket prices
for tonight's Game 5 of the NBA Finals into the stratosphere.

   Ticket brokers in Chicago said courtside seats are being sold
for $10,000 each. The worst seats in the United Center are being
sold for $450-$650.

   ``I've been here a while now, and I can believe it,'' reserve
Bulls center Bill Wennington said. ``With all that's happening, no
doubt I believe it.''

   The Chicago Sun-Times reported one man bought two seats _ for
himself and his 13-year-old son _ in the lower section of the
building for the bargain price of $6,000.

   ``It's history,'' Jud Buechler said. ``I'm treating it like it's
my last trip to the United Center with Michael as a teammate.

   To exemplify how much demand there is for the Bulls, Chicago
police on Thursday confiscated $4 million worth of counterfeit
Bulls merchandise.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0325 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:59 ',
			header: '
A5456 &Cx1f; tad-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NBANOT-COX     06-11 0602
',
			slug: ' BC-NBANOT-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   CHICAGO -- While the NBA Finals grind toward a conclusion,
rumors of coaching moves, trades and the impending draft become
strong secondary issues.

   Lenny Wilkens said Thursday he wishes he were not included, but
for several weeks the Hawks coach has read about his alleged
involvement in the future of the Seattle Sonics, who announced
recently they would not offer ex-coach George Karl another
contract.

   ``All I can tell you is I'm the coach of the Atlanta Hawks and
that I have a four-year contract,'' Wilkens said Thursday. ``I'm
happy as coach of the Hawks, and right now we're all working on
improving our team for next season. That's my total focus.''

   Wilkens said he has not been contacted by the Sonics, ``nor
could I be, unless it were cleared through the Hawks.''

   The Seattle search is being conducted by general manager Wally
Walker, who played for Wilkens, but Walker has not pursued his old
coach. ``He wouldn't do it that way. Wally's an ethical guy,''
Wilkens said.

   Is Wilkens happy in Atlanta?

   ``Absolutely. I think anyone who knows me knows that. Believe
me, I'm not going anywhere. I wouldn't have signed my new contract
if I didn't like it here.''

   Wilkens signed a four-year, $21 million contract extension last
summer. Seattle was his first coaching stop, and he won a
championship in 1979 in his second tour with the franchise.

   No ``Rodzilla''payment

   Despite claims that he blew off a Chicago Bulls practice to earn
a $250,000 for an appearance on a TNT wrestling show, Dennis Rodman
did not earn a penny for his attendance at the Detroit event.

   Rodman has a lucrative contract with the Turner-owned network
for appearances on the wrestling show and probably will be making
money soon after the conclusion of the NBA finals. Turner Sports
has been taking heat from NBA officials for the alleged payment to
Rodman, but the $250,000 fee was a creation by Rodman. The Bulls
forward decided on his own to skip practice Monday before Game 4,
then fly to Detroit to pose with Hulk Hogan.

   Bulls teammate Ron Harper joked about Rodman's showing on TNT,
commenting, ``Hey, you do the math. Let's say he got $250,000 for
that appearance. He was fined $10,000 by the league, $10,000 by the
team. He made $230,000 and didn't have to talk to the media.''

   In truth, he lost $20,000 and had to try to explain himself upon
his return.

   Swan song for Jazz?

   John Stockton and Karl Malone have played together 13 years, and
this was believed to be their best opportunity to win a
championship. Is it also the last?

   ``They've been saying that for, how many years now?'' Malone
asked. ``Six, seven, five for sure. I don't know. I'm just stubborn
enough that I don't believe in that stuff. I think you guys age us
enough. I don't believe in that.''

   Slow hands

   Chicago won Game 4, although it did not score a single
fast-break point.

   ``If you had told me that going in, I'd have felt pretty good
about our chances,'' Jazz guard Jeff Hornacek said. ``On top of
that, they shot 37 percent for the game.''

   So what happened to the Jazz, who were extremely competitive
after being blown out Sunday in unprecedented fashion?

   ``We had open shots all night, and we couldn't make them,''
Hornacek said. ``Their defense did a good job against us. They're a
great defensive team. Still, we had opportunities, and we couldn't
come through.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    NBA Finals Notebook
 &HT;    By Jeffrey Denberg
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   CHICAGO -- While the NBA Finals grind toward a conclusion,
rumors of coaching moves, trades and the impending draft become
strong secondary issues.

   Lenny Wilkens said Thursday he wishes he were not included, but
for several weeks the Hawks coach has read about his alleged
involvement in the future of the Seattle Sonics, who announced
recently they would not offer ex-coach George Karl another
contract.

   ``All I can tell you is I'm the coach of the Atlanta Hawks and
that I have a four-year contract,'' Wilkens said Thursday. ``I'm
happy as coach of the Hawks, and right now we're all working on
improving our team for next season. That's my total focus.''

   Wilkens said he has not been contacted by the Sonics, ``nor
could I be, unless it were cleared through the Hawks.''

   The Seattle search is being conducted by general manager Wally
Walker, who played for Wilkens, but Walker has not pursued his old
coach. ``He wouldn't do it that way. Wally's an ethical guy,''
Wilkens said.

   Is Wilkens happy in Atlanta?

   ``Absolutely. I think anyone who knows me knows that. Believe
me, I'm not going anywhere. I wouldn't have signed my new contract
if I didn't like it here.''

   Wilkens signed a four-year, $21 million contract extension last
summer. Seattle was his first coaching stop, and he won a
championship in 1979 in his second tour with the franchise.

   No ``Rodzilla''payment

   Despite claims that he blew off a Chicago Bulls practice to earn
a $250,000 for an appearance on a TNT wrestling show, Dennis Rodman
did not earn a penny for his attendance at the Detroit event.

   Rodman has a lucrative contract with the Turner-owned network
for appearances on the wrestling show and probably will be making
money soon after the conclusion of the NBA finals. Turner Sports
has been taking heat from NBA officials for the alleged payment to
Rodman, but the $250,000 fee was a creation by Rodman. The Bulls
forward decided on his own to skip practice Monday before Game 4,
then fly to Detroit to pose with Hulk Hogan.

   Bulls teammate Ron Harper joked about Rodman's showing on TNT,
commenting, ``Hey, you do the math. Let's say he got $250,000 for
that appearance. He was fined $10,000 by the league, $10,000 by the
team. He made $230,000 and didn't have to talk to the media.''

   In truth, he lost $20,000 and had to try to explain himself upon
his return.

   Swan song for Jazz?

   John Stockton and Karl Malone have played together 13 years, and
this was believed to be their best opportunity to win a
championship. Is it also the last?

   ``They've been saying that for, how many years now?'' Malone
asked. ``Six, seven, five for sure. I don't know. I'm just stubborn
enough that I don't believe in that stuff. I think you guys age us
enough. I don't believe in that.''

   Slow hands

   Chicago won Game 4, although it did not score a single
fast-break point.

   ``If you had told me that going in, I'd have felt pretty good
about our chances,'' Jazz guard Jeff Hornacek said. ``On top of
that, they shot 37 percent for the game.''

   So what happened to the Jazz, who were extremely competitive
after being blown out Sunday in unprecedented fashion?

   ``We had open shots all night, and we couldn't make them,''
Hornacek said. ``Their defense did a good job against us. They're a
great defensive team. Still, we had opportunities, and we couldn't
come through.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0326 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 20:59 ',
			header: '
A5457 &Cx1f; tad-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ROGERS-COLUMN-COX     06-11 0620
',
			slug: ' BC-ROGERS-COLUMN-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   ATLANTA -- Except for Utah fans and the greedy types at NBC,
most of the more than 50 million viewers of the NBA Finals want to
see Bulls clinch the ``repeat of the three-peat'' tonight in Game
5.

   Toss in the possibility of witnessing Michael Jordan's last
game, and NBC could get a record rating today. The all-time high
for a single NBA telecast is 21.1, set by the Pistons and Lakers in
Game 7 of the 1988 NBA Finals. Wednesday's Bulls-Jazz game drew a
19.1 rating and 58 million viewers. Both were highs for a Game 4 of
the Finals.

   However, to approach the all-time ratings record, NBC would need
about 2.5 million more homes to tune in tonight _ not unreachable
under these circumstances.

   ``Anything's possible, but I think the key was the compelling
beginning, when the first two games were split,'' NBC vice
president Ed Markey said. ``But the chance that this could be the
last time we see Michael Jordan on the court is definitely a pull
to people.''

   The Finals not only have been a showcase for Jordan, Scottie
Pippen and Dennis Rodman, but NBC has done a pretty good job
strutting its stuff, too.

   Bob Costas has been adept at weaving storylines into the
play-by-play call. Before the first of Rodman's five free throws to
ice Game 4, analyst Isiah Thomas drew on his experience during the
Pistons' championship years and told viewers not to be surprised if
the free-spirited forward came through at the line. And then there
was Doug Collins pointing out the adjustments Utah made
offensively, along with making sure the audience knew that Rodman's
defense had turned Jazz star Karl Malone into a non-factor.

   But the unsung heroes of NBC's coverage have been Dave Gibson
and Carlos Demolina, whose timely work in graphics has been superb.
For example, the aging-superstar graphic, which shows the stars'
rest periods in ``game minutes'' and ``actual minutes,'' is one
that should be emulated by other networks.

   Cup not running over

   While the NBA ratings continue to soar, its counterparts in
hockey are going in the other direction. Fox's 3.3 rating for
Tuesday's Stanley Cup opener between the Capitals and Red Wings was
down 17 percent from a year ago.

   The cable rating for Game 2 Thursday on ESPN won't be available
until today, but this is a series that desperately needs to go at
least six games.

   ``If the Cowboys are America's team, the Capitals are America's
anonymous team, though not anymore,'' ESPN analyst Bill Clement
said. ``The sport itself has to generate drama. It's important for
the NHL to stand up with a series that isn't a sweep.''

   Other notables

   The World Cup got off to a good start with 13 goals in the first
four matches, 11 in the first three. And if ESPN, ESPN2 and ABC can
consistently deliver features like Brent Musburger's fine piece on
soccer in Africa before Friday's Cameroon-Austria match, followed
by thoughtful studio commentary by Ty Keough and Julie Foudy, then
all that extra programming around the games won't seem like a
callous attempt to rake in extra advertising revenue. ...
Welterweight champion Oscar de la Hoya will make his 1998 debut
with a title defense Saturday at 10 p.m. on HBO against No. 1
contender Patrick Charpentier. Light heavyweight champion Roy Jones
Jr. will join Jim Lampley and Larry Merchant in the booth. ... The
Dixie Crash Fest II demolition derby in Woodstock will be shown
live tonight at 8 on TNN. A familiar name among the announcers:
Former Oilers quarterback Dan Pastorini.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    NBC eyes NBA ratings mark
 &HT;    By Prentis Rogers
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATLANTA -- Except for Utah fans and the greedy types at NBC,
most of the more than 50 million viewers of the NBA Finals want to
see Bulls clinch the ``repeat of the three-peat'' tonight in Game
5.

   Toss in the possibility of witnessing Michael Jordan's last
game, and NBC could get a record rating today. The all-time high
for a single NBA telecast is 21.1, set by the Pistons and Lakers in
Game 7 of the 1988 NBA Finals. Wednesday's Bulls-Jazz game drew a
19.1 rating and 58 million viewers. Both were highs for a Game 4 of
the Finals.

   However, to approach the all-time ratings record, NBC would need
about 2.5 million more homes to tune in tonight _ not unreachable
under these circumstances.

   ``Anything's possible, but I think the key was the compelling
beginning, when the first two games were split,'' NBC vice
president Ed Markey said. ``But the chance that this could be the
last time we see Michael Jordan on the court is definitely a pull
to people.''

   The Finals not only have been a showcase for Jordan, Scottie
Pippen and Dennis Rodman, but NBC has done a pretty good job
strutting its stuff, too.

   Bob Costas has been adept at weaving storylines into the
play-by-play call. Before the first of Rodman's five free throws to
ice Game 4, analyst Isiah Thomas drew on his experience during the
Pistons' championship years and told viewers not to be surprised if
the free-spirited forward came through at the line. And then there
was Doug Collins pointing out the adjustments Utah made
offensively, along with making sure the audience knew that Rodman's
defense had turned Jazz star Karl Malone into a non-factor.

   But the unsung heroes of NBC's coverage have been Dave Gibson
and Carlos Demolina, whose timely work in graphics has been superb.
For example, the aging-superstar graphic, which shows the stars'
rest periods in ``game minutes'' and ``actual minutes,'' is one
that should be emulated by other networks.

   Cup not running over

   While the NBA ratings continue to soar, its counterparts in
hockey are going in the other direction. Fox's 3.3 rating for
Tuesday's Stanley Cup opener between the Capitals and Red Wings was
down 17 percent from a year ago.

   The cable rating for Game 2 Thursday on ESPN won't be available
until today, but this is a series that desperately needs to go at
least six games.

   ``If the Cowboys are America's team, the Capitals are America's
anonymous team, though not anymore,'' ESPN analyst Bill Clement
said. ``The sport itself has to generate drama. It's important for
the NHL to stand up with a series that isn't a sweep.''

   Other notables

   The World Cup got off to a good start with 13 goals in the first
four matches, 11 in the first three. And if ESPN, ESPN2 and ABC can
consistently deliver features like Brent Musburger's fine piece on
soccer in Africa before Friday's Cameroon-Austria match, followed
by thoughtful studio commentary by Ty Keough and Julie Foudy, then
all that extra programming around the games won't seem like a
callous attempt to rake in extra advertising revenue. ...
Welterweight champion Oscar de la Hoya will make his 1998 debut
with a title defense Saturday at 10 p.m. on HBO against No. 1
contender Patrick Charpentier. Light heavyweight champion Roy Jones
Jr. will join Jim Lampley and Larry Merchant in the booth. ... The
Dixie Crash Fest II demolition derby in Woodstock will be shown
live tonight at 8 on TNN. A familiar name among the announcers:
Former Oilers quarterback Dan Pastorini.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0327 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:00 ',
			header: '
A5459 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-LICENSING-AD-COLUMN-A     06-11 1493
',
			slug: ' BC-LICENSING-AD-COLUMN-ART-NYT ',
			headline: '
ADVERTISING: COMPANIES PUTTING BRANDS ON UNEXPECTED PRODUCTS
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Coca-Cola Picnic Barbie leaves little doubt about her
favorite soda. And brand affiliations don't stop with her: Consider
the Jeep bicycle, the Sara Lee Kahlua Mudslide cheesecake and the
Chevrolet running shoe. And soon to be presented to the American
consumer: the Harley-Davidson armchair.

   Corporations have seized upon brand licensing to promote their
products beyond the usual showrooms or supermarket shelves. Some of
the results are a bit unexpected, like the Harley-Davidson chair,
which should be on sale within 18 months. Others seem to make a
more natural connection, like the windshield wipers licensed by
Pennzoil or the potholders that carry the Pillsbury Doughboy's
chubby image.

   Corporate brand licensing has grown so quickly over the last
five years that it is now virtually equal in size to entertainment
licensing, the longtime behemoth of the business in which
characters from movies or television are rendered in plush and
plastic. Last year, corporate brands accounted for 22 percent of
all licensing in the United States, or $16.06 billion in sales,
said Charles Riotto, executive director of the Licensing Industry
Merchandisers Association, a trade group in New York whose annual
convention took place at the Jacob K. Javits Center in Manhattan
this week.

   Companies see licensing as a low-risk way to build brand
awareness, which can also bring in additional revenue. In some
cases, licensing a name to be used on certain products can help
focus it on a different audience or increase its appeal to specific
consumer groups.

   In contrast to the wave of new corporate licenses, entertainment
_ while omnipresent at the convention in the form of giant cartoon
characters and video monitors featuring new television shows and
movies _ has been relatively stable in recent years, barely staying
ahead at $16.13 billion last year. Behind them came sports
licensing and fashion. Toys, art and celebrities made up much of
the rest of the $73 billion market.

   One indication of how popular corporate brand licensing has
become is the decision by Procter &AMP; Gamble to make some of its
extinct brands available. Citrus Hill, once an orange juice sold in
American stores, is among the eight brands up for grabs, with P.&AMP;
G. pitching it as a possible label for air scents, sweeteners,
frozen foods and other products.

   ``Brands are long-term programs, and entertainment is riskier
and shorter-term,'' said Nancy Bailey, whose firm, based in Coral
Gables, Fla., is responsible for licensing the Pillsbury Doughboy,
Pennzoil, Jelly Belly candies, Old El Paso foods and Clorox bleach.

   Contrast the fate of ``Godzilla,'' this year's projected
blockbuster movie that has failed to deliver the huge ticket sales
many licensees were betting on, with what has happened to the
Doughboy, whose appeal seems only to have grown over the 10 years
since the first cookie jar was licensed. Mrs. Bailey refused to
give the revenue figures for the Doughboy but said that 35
licensees were making more than 250 products sold in the United
States and Japan.

   For companies, licensing is a relatively inexpensive way to
invest in additional self-promotion. ``For the most part, there is
no out-of-pocket cost to a corporation, and no R &AMP; D or marketing
costs _ the licensee does all that,'' Mrs. Bailey said. ``The
profit potential is not as great as if you did it yourself, but
there is no risk.''

   Few companies go into it purely for the money; it's the
opportunity to ``leverage their brand equity'' that drives demand,
Mrs. Bailey said.

   Clearly, corporations see benefits in keeping their logos and
brand names visible, on everything from T-shirts and key chains to
housewares, ceramic figures and computer mouse pads.

   But what accounts for consumer interest in such products, which,
when worn or displayed, constitute free advertising for the
companies involved?

   ``We live in a secular society, but people still love to
surround themselves with icons that move them,'' said Seth Siegel,
co-chairman of the Beanstalk Group, which manages licensing for,
among others, Coca-Cola, Harley-Davidson, and Hormel, as in Spam,
for which there is no game plan yet.

   ``When somebody buys a product that is a relic of
Harley-Davidson motorcycles or the Coca-Cola polar bears, they are
extending their affection for that item and surrounding themselves
with icons that are meaningful to them,'' he said. ``They have no
idea that it's licensed.''

   Siegel also handles licensing for the Vatican Library
Collection, which he said he would like to ``push a little bit away
from religious items'' in favor of inspirational and fine-art
products.

   Coca-Cola is the success story that has launched a thousand
other corporate licensing ventures, but Coke only got into the
business as a defensive maneuver. In the early 1980s, lawyers
advised the company that if it did not go into the T-shirt market
itself, someone else legally could. Coke responded by setting up a
licensing program, which started modestly but now consists of a
30-person department overseeing more than 240 licensees and at
least 10,000 products.

   The licensed products range from beach towels and boxer shorts
to a silver Coke bottle, a $75 framed picture made from a Coke can,
baby clothes, earrings and even a fishing lure in the shape of a
little can complete with feather and hook. ``It started out as a
way to protect the trademark, but now it is part of our overall
marketing initiative for Coca-Cola,'' said Susan McDermott, a
company spokeswoman. Coke declined to provide specific sales
figures, but 50 million items were sold last year, she said. Most
of the escalation has happened recently, she added, with the
business growing by 25 percent a year since 1993.

   Even the federal government is getting in on the act. The
federal Duck Stamp, required on hunting permits to legally shoot
mallards or buffleheads, has its own licensing program that has
produced mugs, pocketknives, key chains, hats, T-shirts and
wallpaper designs based on the stamp, which changes annually. The
$800,000 in revenue generated since the program began in 1984
finances a program that buys land to preserve waterfowl habitats.
The revenues from licensing have jumped by 75 percent from four
years ago, encouraging Lita Edwards, who is in charge of licensing
the stamps, to think big. ``I'm looking into dinnerware,'' she
said, ``and also printed checks.''

   The Chrysler Corp. is taking its Jeep brand in many directions,
all of them ending up with the higher-income household that
typically shops for a Grand Cherokee sport utility vehicle. ``If
there isn't a fit between the brand and the product you're
licensing it to, the consumer is going to think the brand has lost
its authenticity,'' said Debra Joester, president of Hamilton
Projects, a unit of Spelling Entertainment. With that in mind, the
Jeep catalog includes a cordless phone, a boom box complete with
miniature TV, silk neckties, a putter, luggage and a line of
clothing in addition to mountain bikes.

   Corporate licensing is also a way to change a brand's image.
Siegel said a line of home furnishings planned by Harley-Davidson
was intended to push sales of the motorcycle with women. Only about
9 percent of Harley sales are made to women, he said. The company
is also licensing toys, including a Barbie who is dressed in what
Siegel described as ``a very feminine'' outfit. ``Ultimately, the
goal is to sell more bikes to audiences that are not part of the
core franchise,'' he said.

   At Broad Street Licensing, which recently persuaded Unilever to
license its Popsicle and Good Humor brands, the idea is to appeal
to different audiences by creating different images. Popsicles are
clearly aimed at children; Good Humor should appeal to aging baby
boomers.

   ``We created the Popsicle Zone, a universe for kids with an
animated look,'' said Carole Francesca, president of Broad Street,
who was tearing open cartons of Smiley Face Popsicles as fast as
she could while trade-show attendees lunged for them. Popsicle Zone
images will show up soon on clothes, toys and even children's
sunglasses.

   For Good Humor, by contrast, ``we decided on a pure nostalgia
approach,'' Ms. Francesca said. ``We're going into collectibles,
like dolls on the Home Shopping Network, and die-cast Good Humor
trucks.''

   Is nostalgia really enough to sell more Strawberry Shortcake
bars? Yes, says Ms. Francesca, who is 47. ``There is this desire by
boomers to embrace childhood,'' she said. ``It all harkens back to
childhood, before we were all so stressed out.''
',
			body: '


   (ART ADV: Photo is being made available to NYT photo clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or -1927.) 
(ja) 
 By CONSTANCE L. HAYS    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Coca-Cola Picnic Barbie leaves little doubt about her
favorite soda. And brand affiliations don't stop with her: Consider
the Jeep bicycle, the Sara Lee Kahlua Mudslide cheesecake and the
Chevrolet running shoe. And soon to be presented to the American
consumer: the Harley-Davidson armchair.

   Corporations have seized upon brand licensing to promote their
products beyond the usual showrooms or supermarket shelves. Some of
the results are a bit unexpected, like the Harley-Davidson chair,
which should be on sale within 18 months. Others seem to make a
more natural connection, like the windshield wipers licensed by
Pennzoil or the potholders that carry the Pillsbury Doughboy's
chubby image.

   Corporate brand licensing has grown so quickly over the last
five years that it is now virtually equal in size to entertainment
licensing, the longtime behemoth of the business in which
characters from movies or television are rendered in plush and
plastic. Last year, corporate brands accounted for 22 percent of
all licensing in the United States, or $16.06 billion in sales,
said Charles Riotto, executive director of the Licensing Industry
Merchandisers Association, a trade group in New York whose annual
convention took place at the Jacob K. Javits Center in Manhattan
this week.

   Companies see licensing as a low-risk way to build brand
awareness, which can also bring in additional revenue. In some
cases, licensing a name to be used on certain products can help
focus it on a different audience or increase its appeal to specific
consumer groups.

   In contrast to the wave of new corporate licenses, entertainment
_ while omnipresent at the convention in the form of giant cartoon
characters and video monitors featuring new television shows and
movies _ has been relatively stable in recent years, barely staying
ahead at $16.13 billion last year. Behind them came sports
licensing and fashion. Toys, art and celebrities made up much of
the rest of the $73 billion market.

   One indication of how popular corporate brand licensing has
become is the decision by Procter &AMP; Gamble to make some of its
extinct brands available. Citrus Hill, once an orange juice sold in
American stores, is among the eight brands up for grabs, with P.&AMP;
G. pitching it as a possible label for air scents, sweeteners,
frozen foods and other products.

   ``Brands are long-term programs, and entertainment is riskier
and shorter-term,'' said Nancy Bailey, whose firm, based in Coral
Gables, Fla., is responsible for licensing the Pillsbury Doughboy,
Pennzoil, Jelly Belly candies, Old El Paso foods and Clorox bleach.

   Contrast the fate of ``Godzilla,'' this year's projected
blockbuster movie that has failed to deliver the huge ticket sales
many licensees were betting on, with what has happened to the
Doughboy, whose appeal seems only to have grown over the 10 years
since the first cookie jar was licensed. Mrs. Bailey refused to
give the revenue figures for the Doughboy but said that 35
licensees were making more than 250 products sold in the United
States and Japan.

   For companies, licensing is a relatively inexpensive way to
invest in additional self-promotion. ``For the most part, there is
no out-of-pocket cost to a corporation, and no R &AMP; D or marketing
costs _ the licensee does all that,'' Mrs. Bailey said. ``The
profit potential is not as great as if you did it yourself, but
there is no risk.''

   Few companies go into it purely for the money; it's the
opportunity to ``leverage their brand equity'' that drives demand,
Mrs. Bailey said.

   Clearly, corporations see benefits in keeping their logos and
brand names visible, on everything from T-shirts and key chains to
housewares, ceramic figures and computer mouse pads.

   But what accounts for consumer interest in such products, which,
when worn or displayed, constitute free advertising for the
companies involved?

   ``We live in a secular society, but people still love to
surround themselves with icons that move them,'' said Seth Siegel,
co-chairman of the Beanstalk Group, which manages licensing for,
among others, Coca-Cola, Harley-Davidson, and Hormel, as in Spam,
for which there is no game plan yet.

   ``When somebody buys a product that is a relic of
Harley-Davidson motorcycles or the Coca-Cola polar bears, they are
extending their affection for that item and surrounding themselves
with icons that are meaningful to them,'' he said. ``They have no
idea that it's licensed.''

   Siegel also handles licensing for the Vatican Library
Collection, which he said he would like to ``push a little bit away
from religious items'' in favor of inspirational and fine-art
products.

   Coca-Cola is the success story that has launched a thousand
other corporate licensing ventures, but Coke only got into the
business as a defensive maneuver. In the early 1980s, lawyers
advised the company that if it did not go into the T-shirt market
itself, someone else legally could. Coke responded by setting up a
licensing program, which started modestly but now consists of a
30-person department overseeing more than 240 licensees and at
least 10,000 products.

   The licensed products range from beach towels and boxer shorts
to a silver Coke bottle, a $75 framed picture made from a Coke can,
baby clothes, earrings and even a fishing lure in the shape of a
little can complete with feather and hook. ``It started out as a
way to protect the trademark, but now it is part of our overall
marketing initiative for Coca-Cola,'' said Susan McDermott, a
company spokeswoman. Coke declined to provide specific sales
figures, but 50 million items were sold last year, she said. Most
of the escalation has happened recently, she added, with the
business growing by 25 percent a year since 1993.

   Even the federal government is getting in on the act. The
federal Duck Stamp, required on hunting permits to legally shoot
mallards or buffleheads, has its own licensing program that has
produced mugs, pocketknives, key chains, hats, T-shirts and
wallpaper designs based on the stamp, which changes annually. The
$800,000 in revenue generated since the program began in 1984
finances a program that buys land to preserve waterfowl habitats.
The revenues from licensing have jumped by 75 percent from four
years ago, encouraging Lita Edwards, who is in charge of licensing
the stamps, to think big. ``I'm looking into dinnerware,'' she
said, ``and also printed checks.''

   The Chrysler Corp. is taking its Jeep brand in many directions,
all of them ending up with the higher-income household that
typically shops for a Grand Cherokee sport utility vehicle. ``If
there isn't a fit between the brand and the product you're
licensing it to, the consumer is going to think the brand has lost
its authenticity,'' said Debra Joester, president of Hamilton
Projects, a unit of Spelling Entertainment. With that in mind, the
Jeep catalog includes a cordless phone, a boom box complete with
miniature TV, silk neckties, a putter, luggage and a line of
clothing in addition to mountain bikes.

   Corporate licensing is also a way to change a brand's image.
Siegel said a line of home furnishings planned by Harley-Davidson
was intended to push sales of the motorcycle with women. Only about
9 percent of Harley sales are made to women, he said. The company
is also licensing toys, including a Barbie who is dressed in what
Siegel described as ``a very feminine'' outfit. ``Ultimately, the
goal is to sell more bikes to audiences that are not part of the
core franchise,'' he said.

   At Broad Street Licensing, which recently persuaded Unilever to
license its Popsicle and Good Humor brands, the idea is to appeal
to different audiences by creating different images. Popsicles are
clearly aimed at children; Good Humor should appeal to aging baby
boomers.

   ``We created the Popsicle Zone, a universe for kids with an
animated look,'' said Carole Francesca, president of Broad Street,
who was tearing open cartons of Smiley Face Popsicles as fast as
she could while trade-show attendees lunged for them. Popsicle Zone
images will show up soon on clothes, toys and even children's
sunglasses.

   For Good Humor, by contrast, ``we decided on a pure nostalgia
approach,'' Ms. Francesca said. ``We're going into collectibles,
like dolls on the Home Shopping Network, and die-cast Good Humor
trucks.''

   Is nostalgia really enough to sell more Strawberry Shortcake
bars? Yes, says Ms. Francesca, who is 47. ``There is this desire by
boomers to embrace childhood,'' she said. ``It all harkens back to
childhood, before we were all so stressed out.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0328 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:00 ',
			header: '
A5460 &Cx1f; taf-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CONGRESS-CYBERPORN-NY     06-11 0425
',
			slug: ' BC-CONGRESS-CYBERPORN-NYT ',
			headline: '
HOUSE PASSES BILL TO CURB INTERNET AS PEDOPHILES' LURE 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ The House on Thursday unanimously approved a bill
to crack down on pedophiles who use the Internet to entice children
sexually, making prosecutions easier and toughening prison
sentences.

   The bill passed 416-0, reflecting Congress' growing concern with
cyberspace as the number of children who use the Internet continues
to boom while pornography and pedophilia grow along with it. The
legislation is to be considered by the Senate.

   Embraced by all sides _ Republicans, Democrats and the Clinton
administration _ the legislation would prohibit ``contacting'' a
minor through an online service, like the Internet, or engaging in
sexual activity and would establish a three-year minimum sentence
for using a computer to do so.

   Under current federal law, prosecutors must prove that a
pedophile persuaded or forced a child into a sexual act, a
situation that has made it difficult to convict offenders.

   The bill would also make it a federal crime to knowingly
transfer obscene materials to a minor over the Internet.

   ``Individuals who seek children to sexually exploit and
victimize them are also a mouse click away,'' said Rep. Bill
McCollum, R-Fla., who worked with the Justice Department to draft
the bill. ``Cyberpredators often cruise the Internet in search of
lonely, curious or trusting young people. Sex offenders who prey on
children no longer need to hang out in parks or malls or school
yards.

   The House vote comes at a time when law-enforcement officials
are recognizing the popularity of the Internet as a vehicle to
commit crimes.

   Cyberspace poses a particular threat to children because they
often sign on to the Internet unsupervised and can enter chatrooms,
where computer users hold typewritten conversations. Although there
is no way to know how many children are contacted by pedophiles or
are exposed to pornography through the Internet, law-enforcement
officials say it is a growing problem.

   By using the Internet, pedophiles can remain anonymous and
hidden from view, making it easier to seduce children and set up
meetings. Internet-savvy children can also easily access online
pornography.

   The word ``sex,'' typed into a search engine, can summon
numerous listings. And while commercial sites usually require the
use of a credit card, some pornography sites offer free photographs
to lure customers.
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: Fla.)   (bl)  
 By LIZETTE ALVAREZ   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ The House on Thursday unanimously approved a bill
to crack down on pedophiles who use the Internet to entice children
sexually, making prosecutions easier and toughening prison
sentences.

   The bill passed 416-0, reflecting Congress' growing concern with
cyberspace as the number of children who use the Internet continues
to boom while pornography and pedophilia grow along with it. The
legislation is to be considered by the Senate.

   Embraced by all sides _ Republicans, Democrats and the Clinton
administration _ the legislation would prohibit ``contacting'' a
minor through an online service, like the Internet, or engaging in
sexual activity and would establish a three-year minimum sentence
for using a computer to do so.

   Under current federal law, prosecutors must prove that a
pedophile persuaded or forced a child into a sexual act, a
situation that has made it difficult to convict offenders.

   The bill would also make it a federal crime to knowingly
transfer obscene materials to a minor over the Internet.

   ``Individuals who seek children to sexually exploit and
victimize them are also a mouse click away,'' said Rep. Bill
McCollum, R-Fla., who worked with the Justice Department to draft
the bill. ``Cyberpredators often cruise the Internet in search of
lonely, curious or trusting young people. Sex offenders who prey on
children no longer need to hang out in parks or malls or school
yards.

   The House vote comes at a time when law-enforcement officials
are recognizing the popularity of the Internet as a vehicle to
commit crimes.

   Cyberspace poses a particular threat to children because they
often sign on to the Internet unsupervised and can enter chatrooms,
where computer users hold typewritten conversations. Although there
is no way to know how many children are contacted by pedophiles or
are exposed to pornography through the Internet, law-enforcement
officials say it is a growing problem.

   By using the Internet, pedophiles can remain anonymous and
hidden from view, making it easier to seduce children and set up
meetings. Internet-savvy children can also easily access online
pornography.

   The word ``sex,'' typed into a search engine, can summon
numerous listings. And while commercial sites usually require the
use of a credit card, some pornography sites offer free photographs
to lure customers.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0329 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:01 ',
			header: '
A5461 &Cx1f; taf-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NAVY-GAYRIGHTS-400&AMP;AD     06-11 1031
',
			slug: ' BC-NAVY-GAYRIGHTS-400&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
NAVY AND AMERICA ONLINE SETTLE CASE ON PRIVACY, GAY RIGHTS 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ In a move with implications for gay-rights
advocates and for the millions of people who use computer online
services, both the Navy and America Online have reached settlements
with a highly decorated sailor who was investigated by the Navy
after he posted a message in which he described himself as ``gay.''

   Under the Navy agreement, Master Chief Petty Officer Timothy R.
McVeigh, 36, will retire from the military with full benefits and
with tens of thousands of dollars to pay his legal fees.

   The Navy had originally sought to discharge McVeigh without
benefits, despite 18 years of otherwise unblemished service in the
Navy, after he posted a note on the online computer service in
which he identified himself as ``Tim,'' whose marital status was
``gay'' and whose e-mail address was ``Boysrch.''

   The Navy's settlement with McVeigh, who is no relation to the
man convicted of bombing the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in
Oklahoma City, is expected to be announced Friday.

   In a separate settlement, America Online, the nation's largest
online computer service, with 12 million users, has apologized to
McVeigh for violating his privacy and has agreed to pay him
damages. The company acknowledged that it had confirmed to a Navy
investigator that McVeigh was ``Tim.''

   Under the settlement, both sides agreed not to reveal the amount
of money paid to McVeigh by America Online. As a result of the
case, the company has also announced new policies intended to
guarantee the privacy of its users.

   The policies will require that all of the company's nearly 5,000
customer-service representatives be provided with special
``scenario training'' to insure that they do not give out private
information about users without the user's consent or without a
court order. The company has also rewritten its privacy policy to
make it easier to understand, and has made the new policy available
online to all customers.

   ``I'm happy that this case has been resolved on my terms,''
McVeigh said in a telephone interview Thursday from his home in
Honolulu. ``I think that all sailors can take comfort from this. I
hope it sends a message that the rules and regulations that are in
place need to be followed by the military.''

   The Navy said it would withhold comment on the settlement until
the terms were made public.

   McVeigh, who normally would not have been eligible for
retirement for another two years, said he felt some sadness in
leaving the Navy.

   ``It's a job that I've been doing for 18 years, that I'm good
at, that I like, but I'm ready to move on to bigger and better
things,'' he said. ``I think this opens a much broader opportunity
for me.''

   McVeigh's lawyer, Christopher Wolf of Washington, said the
settlement with the Navy was a very significant victory.

   ``It shows what we alleged at the outset, that Mr. McVeigh's
electronic privacy rights and his rights under the military's
`don't ask, don't tell' policy were seriously violated by the
Navy,'' Wolf said. ``It is the first time, as far as I'm aware,
that the Navy has let stand a court decision that it has broken the
law in this area. Obviously it has a precedent that can be relied
on in the future.''

   Last January, Judge Stanley Sporkin of U.S. District Court in
Washington ordered the Navy to halt its efforts to dismiss McVeigh
and ruled that the Navy's investigation into his sexual orientation
was a clear violation of the military's five-year-old policy. The
policy was intended to allow gay service members to remain in the
military so long as they were discreet about their private lives.

   Sporkin also appeared to side with lawyers who suggested that
the Navy and America Online had violated a 1986 federal law that
bars computer service companies from releasing confidential
information about customers without the person's permission or a
court order.

   Wolf said that under the settlement with the Navy, the Defense
Department would not appeal the judge's ruling.

   The case dates to September, when McVeigh sent an e-mail message
to the wife of a fellow crewman aboard the nuclear-powered
submarine Chicago about a Christmas toy drive for the crew's
children.

   Navy officials said the woman was disturbed by the return
address on his e-mail _ ``Boysrch,'' which apparently referred to
``boy search'' _ and she consulted the customer profile listed
under the return address on America Online. The profile identified
the user as Tim of Honolulu, whose hobbies included ``collecting
pictures of other young studs.''

   The information was passed on to a Navy investigator, who
contacted America Online. Without identifying his ties to the Navy,
the investigator asked for the full name of Tim.

   America Online acknowledged this year that a customer-service
representative had violated the company's in-house rules and
confirmed to the investigator that Tim was McVeigh.

   In interviews, McVeigh, who was described in recent performance
evaluations as ``an outstanding role model'' and ``the embodiment
of Navy core values,'' has declined to discuss his sexual
orientation, saying it was irrelevant to a case that should be
focused instead on the possibility of misconduct by the Navy.

   A spokeswoman for America Online, Tricia Primrose, said the
settlement between the company and McVeigh was reached several
months ago but was not announced at the time.

   ``In our review of the situation, we recognized that we had made
a mistake as a result of human error, and that we absolutely
regretted it,'' Ms. Primrose said. ``We've taken responsibility for
this action and satisfactorily resolved it with Mr. McVeigh.''

   Customer-service representatives, she said, would be required to
read and sign a copy of the company's privacy policy every six
months, with the understanding that violations of the policy ``will
be sanctioned all the way up to and including termination.'' &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: Hawaii, Ill.)  (th) 
 By PHILIP SHENON    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ In a move with implications for gay-rights
advocates and for the millions of people who use computer online
services, both the Navy and America Online have reached settlements
with a highly decorated sailor who was investigated by the Navy
after he posted a message in which he described himself as ``gay.''

   Under the Navy agreement, Master Chief Petty Officer Timothy R.
McVeigh, 36, will retire from the military with full benefits and
with tens of thousands of dollars to pay his legal fees.

   The Navy had originally sought to discharge McVeigh without
benefits, despite 18 years of otherwise unblemished service in the
Navy, after he posted a note on the online computer service in
which he identified himself as ``Tim,'' whose marital status was
``gay'' and whose e-mail address was ``Boysrch.''

   The Navy's settlement with McVeigh, who is no relation to the
man convicted of bombing the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in
Oklahoma City, is expected to be announced Friday.

   In a separate settlement, America Online, the nation's largest
online computer service, with 12 million users, has apologized to
McVeigh for violating his privacy and has agreed to pay him
damages. The company acknowledged that it had confirmed to a Navy
investigator that McVeigh was ``Tim.''

   Under the settlement, both sides agreed not to reveal the amount
of money paid to McVeigh by America Online. As a result of the
case, the company has also announced new policies intended to
guarantee the privacy of its users.

   The policies will require that all of the company's nearly 5,000
customer-service representatives be provided with special
``scenario training'' to insure that they do not give out private
information about users without the user's consent or without a
court order. The company has also rewritten its privacy policy to
make it easier to understand, and has made the new policy available
online to all customers.

   ``I'm happy that this case has been resolved on my terms,''
McVeigh said in a telephone interview Thursday from his home in
Honolulu. ``I think that all sailors can take comfort from this. I
hope it sends a message that the rules and regulations that are in
place need to be followed by the military.''

   The Navy said it would withhold comment on the settlement until
the terms were made public.

   McVeigh, who normally would not have been eligible for
retirement for another two years, said he felt some sadness in
leaving the Navy.

   ``It's a job that I've been doing for 18 years, that I'm good
at, that I like, but I'm ready to move on to bigger and better
things,'' he said. ``I think this opens a much broader opportunity
for me.''

   McVeigh's lawyer, Christopher Wolf of Washington, said the
settlement with the Navy was a very significant victory.

   ``It shows what we alleged at the outset, that Mr. McVeigh's
electronic privacy rights and his rights under the military's
`don't ask, don't tell' policy were seriously violated by the
Navy,'' Wolf said. ``It is the first time, as far as I'm aware,
that the Navy has let stand a court decision that it has broken the
law in this area. Obviously it has a precedent that can be relied
on in the future.''

   Last January, Judge Stanley Sporkin of U.S. District Court in
Washington ordered the Navy to halt its efforts to dismiss McVeigh
and ruled that the Navy's investigation into his sexual orientation
was a clear violation of the military's five-year-old policy. The
policy was intended to allow gay service members to remain in the
military so long as they were discreet about their private lives.

   Sporkin also appeared to side with lawyers who suggested that
the Navy and America Online had violated a 1986 federal law that
bars computer service companies from releasing confidential
information about customers without the person's permission or a
court order.

   Wolf said that under the settlement with the Navy, the Defense
Department would not appeal the judge's ruling.

   The case dates to September, when McVeigh sent an e-mail message
to the wife of a fellow crewman aboard the nuclear-powered
submarine Chicago about a Christmas toy drive for the crew's
children.

   Navy officials said the woman was disturbed by the return
address on his e-mail _ ``Boysrch,'' which apparently referred to
``boy search'' _ and she consulted the customer profile listed
under the return address on America Online. The profile identified
the user as Tim of Honolulu, whose hobbies included ``collecting
pictures of other young studs.''

   The information was passed on to a Navy investigator, who
contacted America Online. Without identifying his ties to the Navy,
the investigator asked for the full name of Tim.

   America Online acknowledged this year that a customer-service
representative had violated the company's in-house rules and
confirmed to the investigator that Tim was McVeigh.

   In interviews, McVeigh, who was described in recent performance
evaluations as ``an outstanding role model'' and ``the embodiment
of Navy core values,'' has declined to discuss his sexual
orientation, saying it was irrelevant to a case that should be
focused instead on the possibility of misconduct by the Navy.

   A spokeswoman for America Online, Tricia Primrose, said the
settlement between the company and McVeigh was reached several
months ago but was not announced at the time.

   ``In our review of the situation, we recognized that we had made
a mistake as a result of human error, and that we absolutely
regretted it,'' Ms. Primrose said. ``We've taken responsibility for
this action and satisfactorily resolved it with Mr. McVeigh.''

   Customer-service representatives, she said, would be required to
read and sign a copy of the company's privacy policy every six
months, with the understanding that violations of the policy ``will
be sanctioned all the way up to and including termination.'' &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0330 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:03 ',
			header: '
A5464 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BKC-STJOHNS-NYT &LR;      06-11 0683
',
			slug: ' BC-BKC-STJOHNS-NYT ',
			headline: '
JARVIS NAMED NEW COACH AT ST. JOHN'S  
 (JT) 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Alumni Hall was decorated for a special occasion,
with carpeting and flowers adorning the basketball court. The
accouterments were for commencement ceremonies to come, but in a
small room just off the floor where the decorations consisted of a
Red Storm banner, St. John's was celebrating as happily as any of
the students will be when they walk across the podium. &QL;

   After an exhausting search and drawn-out negotiations, St.
John's introduced Mike Jarvis Thursday as its head basketball
coach.

   ``Good things happen to people who wait,'' said Jarvis, who saw
the St. John's campus for the first time Thursday. ``I felt
comfortable it was being done the right way.'' &QL;

   The athletic director, Ed Manetta, called it a wonderful day.
And Jarvis called it an unbelievable opportunity and compared the
former St. John's coach Lou Carnesecca favorably to the monuments
he left behind in Washington. And through every smile, the St.
John's staff was hoping that this is the last of these festive,
wonderful, unbelievable days for a while. &QL;

   Jarvis, who left George Washington University to become the 16th
coach in St. John's 92-year history, also becomes the third one in
the last four years. He arrives with impressive credentials, a
253-141 record in 13 seasons as a Division I coach, and will amply
rewarded. A person close to the negotiations said Jarvis would earn
more than $5 million in a seven-year deal.

   The qualities that made Jarvis the clear choice by St. John's to
replace Fran Fraschilla, who was dismissed on May 13, also prompted
him to flirt with other schools on a regular basis and persons
close to Jarvis had long maintained that the National Basketball
Association would be his next stop.

   But Jarvis and Red Storm officials insisted that this is not a
temporary stop.

   ``The first thing I would tell the kids here is that I have come
to St. John's to build and to plant trees and see the trees grow
and develop,'' Jarvis said. ``Then I'd tell them to be careful what
they believe.

   ``Look at the track record and you'll see a guy whose wife had
to kick him to leave Cambridge, Mass., where I grew up and coached
high school. You'll see the same guy who had to be pushed to leave
Boston University and take over a program at George Washington that
had won one game the year before. I don't want to say, `forever,'
because God may take me tonight. But I intend to be here a long
time.'' &QL;

   Manetta added: ``I think everyone, the media, is talking about
stepping stones. I think Mike Jarvis is definitely committed to St.
John's and we're committed to him. Beyond that, like he said, with
the grace of God, he'll be here a long, long time.'' &QL;

   In his 13 seasons, Jarvis has never had a losing team, and he
has had equal success off the court, with every one of his players
either graduating or on target to graduate with the exception of
Yinka Dare, who left George Washington for the Nets after his
sophomore season. &QL;

   Unlike the other programs that Jarvis took over, St. John's is
not a rebuilding project. The school comes off of a 22-10 season
and its first National Collegiate Athletic Association Tournament
berth since 1993, and Jarvis inherits a blue-chip recruiting class
left behind by Fraschilla.

   He took over a George Washington program that had won just one
game two years before and led the team to the NCAA's Sweet 16 in
just two seasons.

   Expectations may be even higher here.

   ``If I can live through this, I can live through anything,''
Jarvis said of negotiations that stretched over the last week. ``
Our goal is to develop a comprehensive program. We'll try to be the
best. I hope we can be back competing for a national championship.
You don't come here unless you set your sights high.''  &QL;

   Jarvis later met with a good portion of his new team,
introducing himself and assuring the players of his confidence in
what they had already accomplished without him.

   &QL;
',
			body: '


   By STEVE POPPER    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Alumni Hall was decorated for a special occasion,
with carpeting and flowers adorning the basketball court. The
accouterments were for commencement ceremonies to come, but in a
small room just off the floor where the decorations consisted of a
Red Storm banner, St. John's was celebrating as happily as any of
the students will be when they walk across the podium. &QL;

   After an exhausting search and drawn-out negotiations, St.
John's introduced Mike Jarvis Thursday as its head basketball
coach.

   ``Good things happen to people who wait,'' said Jarvis, who saw
the St. John's campus for the first time Thursday. ``I felt
comfortable it was being done the right way.'' &QL;

   The athletic director, Ed Manetta, called it a wonderful day.
And Jarvis called it an unbelievable opportunity and compared the
former St. John's coach Lou Carnesecca favorably to the monuments
he left behind in Washington. And through every smile, the St.
John's staff was hoping that this is the last of these festive,
wonderful, unbelievable days for a while. &QL;

   Jarvis, who left George Washington University to become the 16th
coach in St. John's 92-year history, also becomes the third one in
the last four years. He arrives with impressive credentials, a
253-141 record in 13 seasons as a Division I coach, and will amply
rewarded. A person close to the negotiations said Jarvis would earn
more than $5 million in a seven-year deal.

   The qualities that made Jarvis the clear choice by St. John's to
replace Fran Fraschilla, who was dismissed on May 13, also prompted
him to flirt with other schools on a regular basis and persons
close to Jarvis had long maintained that the National Basketball
Association would be his next stop.

   But Jarvis and Red Storm officials insisted that this is not a
temporary stop.

   ``The first thing I would tell the kids here is that I have come
to St. John's to build and to plant trees and see the trees grow
and develop,'' Jarvis said. ``Then I'd tell them to be careful what
they believe.

   ``Look at the track record and you'll see a guy whose wife had
to kick him to leave Cambridge, Mass., where I grew up and coached
high school. You'll see the same guy who had to be pushed to leave
Boston University and take over a program at George Washington that
had won one game the year before. I don't want to say, `forever,'
because God may take me tonight. But I intend to be here a long
time.'' &QL;

   Manetta added: ``I think everyone, the media, is talking about
stepping stones. I think Mike Jarvis is definitely committed to St.
John's and we're committed to him. Beyond that, like he said, with
the grace of God, he'll be here a long, long time.'' &QL;

   In his 13 seasons, Jarvis has never had a losing team, and he
has had equal success off the court, with every one of his players
either graduating or on target to graduate with the exception of
Yinka Dare, who left George Washington for the Nets after his
sophomore season. &QL;

   Unlike the other programs that Jarvis took over, St. John's is
not a rebuilding project. The school comes off of a 22-10 season
and its first National Collegiate Athletic Association Tournament
berth since 1993, and Jarvis inherits a blue-chip recruiting class
left behind by Fraschilla.

   He took over a George Washington program that had won just one
game two years before and led the team to the NCAA's Sweet 16 in
just two seasons.

   Expectations may be even higher here.

   ``If I can live through this, I can live through anything,''
Jarvis said of negotiations that stretched over the last week. ``
Our goal is to develop a comprehensive program. We'll try to be the
best. I hope we can be back competing for a national championship.
You don't come here unless you set your sights high.''  &QL;

   Jarvis later met with a good portion of his new team,
introducing himself and assuring the players of his confidence in
what they had already accomplished without him.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0331 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:06 ',
			header: '
A5468 &Cx1f; tad-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BAPTIST12-COX     06-11 0272
',
			slug: ' BC-BAPTIST12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   SALT LAKE CITY _ By only 66 votes of more than 2,000 cast, the
Southern Baptist Convention on Thursday refused to call on
President Clinton's home church in Arkansas to consider
disciplining the president for his stand on civil rights protection
for homosexual federal employees.

   The convention adopted a resolution urging Congress to nullify
an executive order that prohibits ''discrimination based on sexual
orientation in the federal work force.'' The resolution describes
homosexuality as ''immoral, contrary to the Bible and contrary to
traditional Judeo-Christian moral standards.''

   The call for discipline of the president came from the Rev.
Wiley Drake, a California pastor who a day earlier tried to have
the president's name added to a resolution decrying immorality
among public officials.

   Drake said if the president's church did not deal with his
position on homosexuality, it might be considered ''out of
cooperation'' with the convention, which rejects churches that
''affirm, approve or endorse homosexual behavior.''

   Clinton's home church is Immanuel Baptist Church in Little Rock.
Its pastor, the Rev. Rex Horne, was not registered at the
convention, according to officials.

   Although 8,500 ''messengers'' to the convention had registered,
fewer than 2,100 voted during the convention's closing session in
the Salt Palace. The vote on disciplining Clinton was 1,005 for,
1,071 against.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Baptists almost OK criticism of Clinton
 &HT;    By Gayle White
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   SALT LAKE CITY _ By only 66 votes of more than 2,000 cast, the
Southern Baptist Convention on Thursday refused to call on
President Clinton's home church in Arkansas to consider
disciplining the president for his stand on civil rights protection
for homosexual federal employees.

   The convention adopted a resolution urging Congress to nullify
an executive order that prohibits ''discrimination based on sexual
orientation in the federal work force.'' The resolution describes
homosexuality as ''immoral, contrary to the Bible and contrary to
traditional Judeo-Christian moral standards.''

   The call for discipline of the president came from the Rev.
Wiley Drake, a California pastor who a day earlier tried to have
the president's name added to a resolution decrying immorality
among public officials.

   Drake said if the president's church did not deal with his
position on homosexuality, it might be considered ''out of
cooperation'' with the convention, which rejects churches that
''affirm, approve or endorse homosexual behavior.''

   Clinton's home church is Immanuel Baptist Church in Little Rock.
Its pastor, the Rev. Rex Horne, was not registered at the
convention, according to officials.

   Although 8,500 ''messengers'' to the convention had registered,
fewer than 2,100 voted during the convention's closing session in
the Salt Palace. The vote on disciplining Clinton was 1,005 for,
1,071 against.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0332 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:06 ',
			header: '
A5469 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-THQ-JAKKS-LADN     06-11 0197
',
			slug: ' BC-THQ-JAKKS-LADN ',
			headline: '
WRESTLING DEAL BOOSTS SHARES OF GAME MAKER
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ THQ Inc. and JAKKS Pacific Inc. said they have
signed a 10-year exclusive agreement with Titan Sports Inc. to
publish World Wrestling Federation-based electronic games.

   Shares of video game publisher THQ, based in nearby Calabasas,
fell nearly 40 percent over two days in March on the news Thursday
that it lost its right to license games based on the World
Championship Wrestling franchise. Although shares have recovered
since, they still are below their 1998 high of $32.43.

   News of the agreement helped drive up the value of THQ's stock,
which closed Thursday up 2 1/2 (one-half) at 25 3/4
(three-quarters), a 10.8 percent increase. JAKKS stock closed
unchanged at 10 1/2 (one-half).

   JAKKS, a toy maker based in nearby Malibu, already has a license
to make WWF action figures. Privately held Titan Sports owns the
WWF.

   The first games, to be published on a variety of game platforms,
are expected to be released late next year, according to company
officials.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By ENRIQUE RIVERO  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ THQ Inc. and JAKKS Pacific Inc. said they have
signed a 10-year exclusive agreement with Titan Sports Inc. to
publish World Wrestling Federation-based electronic games.

   Shares of video game publisher THQ, based in nearby Calabasas,
fell nearly 40 percent over two days in March on the news Thursday
that it lost its right to license games based on the World
Championship Wrestling franchise. Although shares have recovered
since, they still are below their 1998 high of $32.43.

   News of the agreement helped drive up the value of THQ's stock,
which closed Thursday up 2 1/2 (one-half) at 25 3/4
(three-quarters), a 10.8 percent increase. JAKKS stock closed
unchanged at 10 1/2 (one-half).

   JAKKS, a toy maker based in nearby Malibu, already has a license
to make WWF action figures. Privately held Titan Sports owns the
WWF.

   The first games, to be published on a variety of game platforms,
are expected to be released late next year, according to company
officials.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0333 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:07 ',
			header: '
A5470 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-UNITED-TV-GUIDE-ART-8     06-11 1119
',
			slug: ' BC-UNITED-TV-GUIDE-ART-800&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
MURDOCH SELLS TV GUIDE FOR $2 BILLION 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ In a deal that brings together the nation's
top-selling weekly magazine with the leading provider of on-screen
television listings, the News Corp. agreed Thursday to sell TV
Guide to United Video Satellite Group Inc. for $2 billion in cash
and stock.

   The sale ends a 10-year struggle by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp.
to make TV Guide pay off after an ambitious acquisition spree had
put the company heavily into debt. A decade ago, Murdoch was widely
considered to have overpaid for TV Guide and a stable of other
magazines and he acknowledged as much several years later.

   Thursday's announced sale price represents roughly what News
Corp. paid for TV Guide in 1988, when it bought the magazine along
with The Daily Racing Form and Seventeen from Walter H. Annenberg's
Triangle Industries for $2.85 billion.

   With the sale, Murdoch is exiting almost entirely from his U.S.
investment in magazines, an empire that once included a half
ownership of Elle, as well as ownership of New York Magazine,
European Travel &AMP; Life and Mirabella. The Daily Racing Form,
Seventeen and a number of other publications were sold to K-III
Media for $650 million in 1991.

   Now, the only American magazine remaining at News Corp, the
Australian media conglomerate, will be The Weekly Standard, a
conservative opinion publication with a circulation of about 55,000
that the company began in 1995. That investment parallels Murdoch's
withdrawal from the U.S. newspaper market, where he owns one
remaining newspaper, The New York Post, a tabloid whose
conservative editorial view reflects that of its owner.

   Still, as recently as September, Murdoch appeared interested in
rebuilding the magazine business. He formed a new publishing
venture that included TV Guide and the publisher HarperCollins. At
that time, Peter Chernin, News Corp.'s president, said that the
company was interested in expanding in publishing.

   Wall Street analysts, however, approved Thursday of the change
of plans for TV Guide.

   Christopher Dixon, who follows the industry for PaineWebber
Inc., said that News Corp. was essentially transferring its
interest in a mature business with little growth potential to a
stake in a company that is focused on the faster-growing video
listing business.

   TV Guide's circulation has dropped to 13.1 million from 16.3
million in 1988. But a combination with United Video's Prevue
Networks, which scrolls the schedules of broadcast and cable
programming on cable television, promises a new avenue of growth.
Prevue Networks is in 50 million cable households in the United
States and 3 million homes overseas.

   The combined company would be able to sell advertisers on having
exposure in both print and on television. The two companies are
hoping to find cost savings in gathering, marketing and
distributing programming data.

   Peter Boylan, the president of United Video, said Thursday that
the companies thought they could increase revenues by selling
advertising on both print and electronic outlets and particularly
because of News Corp.'s interests in satellite services in Britain,
Japan, China, and South America. Boylan added that both
Tele-Communications Inc. and News Corp. had agreed to use United
Video for its guides.

   United Video is owned by two companies that are in turn
controlled by Tele-Communications, the nation's second-largest
cable operation, after Time Warner. One company, Liberty Media,
owns stakes in a variety of cable programming companies. TCI
Ventures Group has stakes in a variety of different cable
businesses including its holding in AT&AMP;T and Sprint PCS. News Corp.
and its Fox television business are in a series of joint ventures
with Tele-Communications companies, including Fox/Liberty Sports, a
series of regional cable services and The Fx Channel, a cable
service.

   United Video will pay News Corp. $800 million in cash and $1.2
billion in United Video stock. That stake will leave News Corp.
with 40 percent of United Video's equity and 48 percent of its
votes. News Corp. will get 11.25 million A shares with a single
vote each and 18.75 million B shares with 10 votes per share.

   Tele-Communications-controlled companies, which will own 44
percent of the equity, will also have 48 percent of the votes. The
public will retain 16 percent of the equity, representing about 4
percent of the votes.

   United Video's stock rose $1.50 Thursday, closing at $38.50.
American depository receipts of News Corp., each representing four
shares of the Australian company, rose 93.75 cents, to $24.50.

   News Corp.'s American depository receipts are still well down
from an April high of $29.875, reflecting investor concern that
Murdoch, who controls the company, may yet again make an
acquisition that could put the company into financial trouble.

   And even though News Corp.'s 20th Century Fox has benefited from
the success of ``Titanic,'' investors understand that a successful
year in films does not guarantee future successes.

   Also hanging over the company is a management issue. Though
Murdoch has said that his children will take over, few investors
think that shareholders would put up very long with the relatively
inexperienced Murdoch heirs running their father's far-flung
empire.

   News Corp. does not break out TV Guide's profits separately. But
Boylan of United Video, said that that last year TV Guide's 3,305
advertising pages generated more than $200 million in advertising.
In 1987, it had an estimated $337 million in advertising revenue.
In the first quarter of this year, ad pages dropped 13 percent, to
801 pages, as drug companies opted for television commercials after
a regulatory decision to relax the rules that had kept such ads off
the air. TV Guide has raised its cover price from 75 cents in 1988
to $1.19 today.

   United Video's Prevue Networks had advertising revenue last year
of $40 million, Boylan said. Prevue Interactive is available in the
United States in more than 550 cable systems and more than 13
million homes.

   The deal between United Video and News Corp. an end to talks
between United Video and Gemstar International Group Ltd. The two
companies had been exploring a plan to offer interactive program
guides for cable television.

   Gemstar's stock fell $3.125 a share Thursday, closing at
$41.875.
',
			body: '


  (ART ADV: Graphic is being made available to NYT graphic clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or -1927.) 
(ja) 
 By GERALDINE FABRIKANT   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ In a deal that brings together the nation's
top-selling weekly magazine with the leading provider of on-screen
television listings, the News Corp. agreed Thursday to sell TV
Guide to United Video Satellite Group Inc. for $2 billion in cash
and stock.

   The sale ends a 10-year struggle by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp.
to make TV Guide pay off after an ambitious acquisition spree had
put the company heavily into debt. A decade ago, Murdoch was widely
considered to have overpaid for TV Guide and a stable of other
magazines and he acknowledged as much several years later.

   Thursday's announced sale price represents roughly what News
Corp. paid for TV Guide in 1988, when it bought the magazine along
with The Daily Racing Form and Seventeen from Walter H. Annenberg's
Triangle Industries for $2.85 billion.

   With the sale, Murdoch is exiting almost entirely from his U.S.
investment in magazines, an empire that once included a half
ownership of Elle, as well as ownership of New York Magazine,
European Travel &AMP; Life and Mirabella. The Daily Racing Form,
Seventeen and a number of other publications were sold to K-III
Media for $650 million in 1991.

   Now, the only American magazine remaining at News Corp, the
Australian media conglomerate, will be The Weekly Standard, a
conservative opinion publication with a circulation of about 55,000
that the company began in 1995. That investment parallels Murdoch's
withdrawal from the U.S. newspaper market, where he owns one
remaining newspaper, The New York Post, a tabloid whose
conservative editorial view reflects that of its owner.

   Still, as recently as September, Murdoch appeared interested in
rebuilding the magazine business. He formed a new publishing
venture that included TV Guide and the publisher HarperCollins. At
that time, Peter Chernin, News Corp.'s president, said that the
company was interested in expanding in publishing.

   Wall Street analysts, however, approved Thursday of the change
of plans for TV Guide.

   Christopher Dixon, who follows the industry for PaineWebber
Inc., said that News Corp. was essentially transferring its
interest in a mature business with little growth potential to a
stake in a company that is focused on the faster-growing video
listing business.

   TV Guide's circulation has dropped to 13.1 million from 16.3
million in 1988. But a combination with United Video's Prevue
Networks, which scrolls the schedules of broadcast and cable
programming on cable television, promises a new avenue of growth.
Prevue Networks is in 50 million cable households in the United
States and 3 million homes overseas.

   The combined company would be able to sell advertisers on having
exposure in both print and on television. The two companies are
hoping to find cost savings in gathering, marketing and
distributing programming data.

   Peter Boylan, the president of United Video, said Thursday that
the companies thought they could increase revenues by selling
advertising on both print and electronic outlets and particularly
because of News Corp.'s interests in satellite services in Britain,
Japan, China, and South America. Boylan added that both
Tele-Communications Inc. and News Corp. had agreed to use United
Video for its guides.

   United Video is owned by two companies that are in turn
controlled by Tele-Communications, the nation's second-largest
cable operation, after Time Warner. One company, Liberty Media,
owns stakes in a variety of cable programming companies. TCI
Ventures Group has stakes in a variety of different cable
businesses including its holding in AT&AMP;T and Sprint PCS. News Corp.
and its Fox television business are in a series of joint ventures
with Tele-Communications companies, including Fox/Liberty Sports, a
series of regional cable services and The Fx Channel, a cable
service.

   United Video will pay News Corp. $800 million in cash and $1.2
billion in United Video stock. That stake will leave News Corp.
with 40 percent of United Video's equity and 48 percent of its
votes. News Corp. will get 11.25 million A shares with a single
vote each and 18.75 million B shares with 10 votes per share.

   Tele-Communications-controlled companies, which will own 44
percent of the equity, will also have 48 percent of the votes. The
public will retain 16 percent of the equity, representing about 4
percent of the votes.

   United Video's stock rose $1.50 Thursday, closing at $38.50.
American depository receipts of News Corp., each representing four
shares of the Australian company, rose 93.75 cents, to $24.50.

   News Corp.'s American depository receipts are still well down
from an April high of $29.875, reflecting investor concern that
Murdoch, who controls the company, may yet again make an
acquisition that could put the company into financial trouble.

   And even though News Corp.'s 20th Century Fox has benefited from
the success of ``Titanic,'' investors understand that a successful
year in films does not guarantee future successes.

   Also hanging over the company is a management issue. Though
Murdoch has said that his children will take over, few investors
think that shareholders would put up very long with the relatively
inexperienced Murdoch heirs running their father's far-flung
empire.

   News Corp. does not break out TV Guide's profits separately. But
Boylan of United Video, said that that last year TV Guide's 3,305
advertising pages generated more than $200 million in advertising.
In 1987, it had an estimated $337 million in advertising revenue.
In the first quarter of this year, ad pages dropped 13 percent, to
801 pages, as drug companies opted for television commercials after
a regulatory decision to relax the rules that had kept such ads off
the air. TV Guide has raised its cover price from 75 cents in 1988
to $1.19 today.

   United Video's Prevue Networks had advertising revenue last year
of $40 million, Boylan said. Prevue Interactive is available in the
United States in more than 550 cable systems and more than 13
million homes.

   The deal between United Video and News Corp. an end to talks
between United Video and Gemstar International Group Ltd. The two
companies had been exploring a plan to offer interactive program
guides for cable television.

   Gemstar's stock fell $3.125 a share Thursday, closing at
$41.875.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0334 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:07 ',
			header: '
A5471 &Cx1f; tad-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BAPTIST12-SIDE-COX     06-11 0443
',
			slug: ' BC-BAPTIST12-SIDE-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   SALT LAKE CITY _ The Southern Baptist Convention continued the
process of gender definition begun earlier in the week by coming
out Thursday against women in combat, calling the practice ''a
foolish social experiment.''

   On the opening day of the convention Tuesday, those attending
adopted a statement that says husbands should love, ''provide
for,'' ``protect'' and ''lead'' their families and that wives
should ''submit graciously'' to the leadership of their husbands.

   Resolutions chairman Michael Whitehead, a lawyer and vice
president of Midwestern Theological Seminary in Kansas City, told
the convention, ''God has assigned men to be the head of the
household and protector of the nation.'' To have women in combat
service, he said, ''puts women at risk. It also puts the men at
risk.''

   According to the resolution, the breakdown of male-female role
distinctions in the military escalates sexual tension, ''weakens
unit cohesion, exposes female warriors taken as POWs to the special
trauma of rape and sexual abuse, places a major new strain on
marital fidelity and risks the nation's military security.

   The convention also:

   Called on Congress to stop public funding of ''religious
bigotry'' in the form of programs sponsored by the Public
Broadcasting System and the National Endowment for the Arts. The
resolution cited a PBS program called ''From Jesus to Christ'' that
was broadcast during Easter week and a New York play called
''Corpus Christi,'' which received NEA funding and which depicted
Jesus as having homosexual relationships with his disciples.

   Supported the ''covenant marriage'' legislation enacted by some
states to require pre-marital counseling and more stringent divorce
requirements for couples who choose to participate.

   To end the convention, Dr. James Dobson, founder of the Colorado
Springs-based Focus on the Family Ministry, commended the Baptists
for their stand against homosexuality and their statement on
marriage and the family.

   Critics ``practically made you Neanderthals who are dragging
women around by the hair,'' he said. ``They are trying to keep you
from exercising your influence.''

   But Dobson, a member of the Church of the Nazarene, said
conservative Christians ``have every right to be heard, every right
to influence. It's guaranteed to us by the Constitution.''

   Churches, he said, ''should be using their influence to defend
righteousness.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Baptists urge halt to women in combat roles
 &HT;    By Gayle White
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   SALT LAKE CITY _ The Southern Baptist Convention continued the
process of gender definition begun earlier in the week by coming
out Thursday against women in combat, calling the practice ''a
foolish social experiment.''

   On the opening day of the convention Tuesday, those attending
adopted a statement that says husbands should love, ''provide
for,'' ``protect'' and ''lead'' their families and that wives
should ''submit graciously'' to the leadership of their husbands.

   Resolutions chairman Michael Whitehead, a lawyer and vice
president of Midwestern Theological Seminary in Kansas City, told
the convention, ''God has assigned men to be the head of the
household and protector of the nation.'' To have women in combat
service, he said, ''puts women at risk. It also puts the men at
risk.''

   According to the resolution, the breakdown of male-female role
distinctions in the military escalates sexual tension, ''weakens
unit cohesion, exposes female warriors taken as POWs to the special
trauma of rape and sexual abuse, places a major new strain on
marital fidelity and risks the nation's military security.

   The convention also:

   Called on Congress to stop public funding of ''religious
bigotry'' in the form of programs sponsored by the Public
Broadcasting System and the National Endowment for the Arts. The
resolution cited a PBS program called ''From Jesus to Christ'' that
was broadcast during Easter week and a New York play called
''Corpus Christi,'' which received NEA funding and which depicted
Jesus as having homosexual relationships with his disciples.

   Supported the ''covenant marriage'' legislation enacted by some
states to require pre-marital counseling and more stringent divorce
requirements for couples who choose to participate.

   To end the convention, Dr. James Dobson, founder of the Colorado
Springs-based Focus on the Family Ministry, commended the Baptists
for their stand against homosexuality and their statement on
marriage and the family.

   Critics ``practically made you Neanderthals who are dragging
women around by the hair,'' he said. ``They are trying to keep you
from exercising your influence.''

   But Dobson, a member of the Church of the Nazarene, said
conservative Christians ``have every right to be heard, every right
to influence. It's guaranteed to us by the Constitution.''

   Churches, he said, ''should be using their influence to defend
righteousness.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0335 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:07 ',
			header: '
A5472 &Cx1f; tad-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-DOWDOW-COX     06-11 0499
',
			slug: ' BC-DOWDOW-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   ATLANTA -- Japan's slumping currency spread fear Thursday on
Wall Street that Asia's financial crisis might hurt corporate
profits more seriously than originally believed. The result was
stocks fell sharply for the second straight day.

   Companies like Coca-Cola, whose earnings are affected by
currency moves, were among the many losers. Coca-Cola shed $1.37
1/2 to $79.68 3/4.

   In contrast, utility stocks were one the few bright spots.
Southern Co. traded at a 52-week high of $29 before closing at
$28.81 1/4, up 81 1/4 cents.

   Some usually bullish analysts now expect the correction _ or
extended decline _ in technology and small stocks to spread to
larger, blue chip stocks. While the Dow Jones industrial average
fell almost 160 points, or 1.78 percent Thursday, its recent
decline has been much less than those of barometers of technology
stocks and smaller issues.

   ``The possibility of a 5-to-7 percent correction is getting
significant,'' said Robinson-Humphrey strategist Robert S. Robbins.
That would take the Dow to about 8,500.

   The technology-loaded Nasdaq composite index is already down
almost 9 percent from its high on April 22.

   Analysts said Japan's reluctance to reform its economy is
putting pressure on Hong Kong and China to devalue their
currencies. If that happened, it could cause a meltdown in the
Asian economy, in their view. That would rob U.S. companies of
Asian markets and also flood the United States with even cheaper
Asian products.

   ``The cheaper imports is what would hurt earnings prospects,''
said Legacy South strategist Phillip M. Larkins. To remain
competitive, U.S. companies would have to hold down their own
prices.

   Analysts say investors, nervous about earnings growth, are
reacting by shifting money from smaller stocks into larger blue
chips that have more reliable records of profit growth.

   Still, the general outlook is for a correction of no more than 7
percent to 10 percent.

   ``The fundamentals and technicals say the bull is alive and well
with a normal slight shift in personality,'' said A.G. Edwards &AMP;
Sons strategist Alfred E. Goldman.

   Thursday's drop in stocks came just one day after Federal
Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan delivered some of his most
optimistic comments to date about the economy and inflation.

   But that was overshadowed by the dollar's rise to an eight-year
high against the Japanese yen and to a seven-week high against the
deutsche mark, as investors shifted funds from Asia to U.S.
Treasury bonds.

   Yields on the 30-year Treasury dropped to the lowest level in
the bond's 21-year history, 5.65 percent. Some analysts contend
falling Treasury yields will eventually help rescue stocks because
bond returns will become unattractive.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Optimism scant on Wall Street; Japanese currency slump a big
worry
 &HT;    By Tom Walker
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATLANTA -- Japan's slumping currency spread fear Thursday on
Wall Street that Asia's financial crisis might hurt corporate
profits more seriously than originally believed. The result was
stocks fell sharply for the second straight day.

   Companies like Coca-Cola, whose earnings are affected by
currency moves, were among the many losers. Coca-Cola shed $1.37
1/2 to $79.68 3/4.

   In contrast, utility stocks were one the few bright spots.
Southern Co. traded at a 52-week high of $29 before closing at
$28.81 1/4, up 81 1/4 cents.

   Some usually bullish analysts now expect the correction _ or
extended decline _ in technology and small stocks to spread to
larger, blue chip stocks. While the Dow Jones industrial average
fell almost 160 points, or 1.78 percent Thursday, its recent
decline has been much less than those of barometers of technology
stocks and smaller issues.

   ``The possibility of a 5-to-7 percent correction is getting
significant,'' said Robinson-Humphrey strategist Robert S. Robbins.
That would take the Dow to about 8,500.

   The technology-loaded Nasdaq composite index is already down
almost 9 percent from its high on April 22.

   Analysts said Japan's reluctance to reform its economy is
putting pressure on Hong Kong and China to devalue their
currencies. If that happened, it could cause a meltdown in the
Asian economy, in their view. That would rob U.S. companies of
Asian markets and also flood the United States with even cheaper
Asian products.

   ``The cheaper imports is what would hurt earnings prospects,''
said Legacy South strategist Phillip M. Larkins. To remain
competitive, U.S. companies would have to hold down their own
prices.

   Analysts say investors, nervous about earnings growth, are
reacting by shifting money from smaller stocks into larger blue
chips that have more reliable records of profit growth.

   Still, the general outlook is for a correction of no more than 7
percent to 10 percent.

   ``The fundamentals and technicals say the bull is alive and well
with a normal slight shift in personality,'' said A.G. Edwards &AMP;
Sons strategist Alfred E. Goldman.

   Thursday's drop in stocks came just one day after Federal
Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan delivered some of his most
optimistic comments to date about the economy and inflation.

   But that was overshadowed by the dollar's rise to an eight-year
high against the Japanese yen and to a seven-week high against the
deutsche mark, as investors shifted funds from Asia to U.S.
Treasury bonds.

   Yields on the 30-year Treasury dropped to the lowest level in
the bond's 21-year history, 5.65 percent. Some analysts contend
falling Treasury yields will eventually help rescue stocks because
bond returns will become unattractive.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0336 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:07 ',
			header: '
A5473 &Cx1f; tad-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NBAF-COX     06-11 0379
',
			slug: ' BC-NBAF-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   ATLANTA -- Just under a month before the fifth biennial National
Black Arts Festival, July 10-19, organizers are still finalizing
programming and raising money.

   The length of time it's taken to complete programming _ which
includes the staging of two-time Pulitzer Prize winner August
Wilson's ``Jitney'' _ has kept the NBAF from generating a ``real
buzz,'' says festival participant Greg Tate. ``If you know about
it, you have to be really `in the know,''' the musician notes.
``It's kind of a word-of-mouth thing. And the festival is really
too big for that.''

   Managing director Deborah Richardson concurs. ``Obviously ticket
sales and promotion would be better if we had everything nailed
down six months out,'' she concedes. ``And that's something we'll
sit down and discuss once this festival is done. But we've made
great strides in marketing in comparison to the last festival.
We're much further along, generally, than we were (at this point)
in 1996.''

   Recent developments include:

   The brochure of ticketed events is complete and available to the
public. (Information: 1-800-836-6223 (1-800-TEN-NBAF).)

   The dance and literature components have been filled out with
the Urban Bush Women and Brown Silk &AMP; Magenta Sunsets companies
performing before the already announced ``Big Dance'' July 18.
Authors John Edgar Wideman, Marita Golden and Nathan McCall will
join Ntozake Shange and bell hooks.

   A theatrical performance by Lyrikal Ferta with Jonzi D is still
being negotiated but has been placed on the master schedule.

   WALR-FM (104.7) morning announcer Tom Joyner will host his
syndicated show from the festival, at the Atlanta Civic Center, on
opening day.

   Meanwhile Richardson says the NBAF is still soliciting sponsors
for the $1.5 million undertaking. ``We're fine economically,'' she
says. ``But you can never have enough money. So that, along with
working out the logistical part of the festival, are the main
challenges at this point.

   ``We're not worried,'' Richardson adds. ``If it were a week
away, maybe.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Planners finishing Black Arts Fest details
 &HT;    By Sonia Murray
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATLANTA -- Just under a month before the fifth biennial National
Black Arts Festival, July 10-19, organizers are still finalizing
programming and raising money.

   The length of time it's taken to complete programming _ which
includes the staging of two-time Pulitzer Prize winner August
Wilson's ``Jitney'' _ has kept the NBAF from generating a ``real
buzz,'' says festival participant Greg Tate. ``If you know about
it, you have to be really `in the know,''' the musician notes.
``It's kind of a word-of-mouth thing. And the festival is really
too big for that.''

   Managing director Deborah Richardson concurs. ``Obviously ticket
sales and promotion would be better if we had everything nailed
down six months out,'' she concedes. ``And that's something we'll
sit down and discuss once this festival is done. But we've made
great strides in marketing in comparison to the last festival.
We're much further along, generally, than we were (at this point)
in 1996.''

   Recent developments include:

   The brochure of ticketed events is complete and available to the
public. (Information: 1-800-836-6223 (1-800-TEN-NBAF).)

   The dance and literature components have been filled out with
the Urban Bush Women and Brown Silk &AMP; Magenta Sunsets companies
performing before the already announced ``Big Dance'' July 18.
Authors John Edgar Wideman, Marita Golden and Nathan McCall will
join Ntozake Shange and bell hooks.

   A theatrical performance by Lyrikal Ferta with Jonzi D is still
being negotiated but has been placed on the master schedule.

   WALR-FM (104.7) morning announcer Tom Joyner will host his
syndicated show from the festival, at the Atlanta Civic Center, on
opening day.

   Meanwhile Richardson says the NBAF is still soliciting sponsors
for the $1.5 million undertaking. ``We're fine economically,'' she
says. ``But you can never have enough money. So that, along with
working out the logistical part of the festival, are the main
challenges at this point.

   ``We're not worried,'' Richardson adds. ``If it were a week
away, maybe.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0337 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:07 ',
			header: '
A5474 &Cx1f; tad-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SAPORTA-COLUMN-COX     06-11 0858
',
			slug: ' BC-SAPORTA-COLUMN-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   ATLANTA -- When U.S. Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) appealed this
week for the doubling of the federal budget for basic research,
leaders of the Georgia Research Alliance were paying attention.

   Several of the alliance's directors already had taken a trip to
Washington in April to meet with Georgia's congressional
delegation. The purpose of the trip was to develop closer ties
between federal initiatives and the six research universities in
Georgia.

   Up to now, the alliance has been the baby of the state of
Georgia. It was started in the early 1990s as a way to develop
research partnerships between public and private universities in
the state and to encourage high-technology development in Georgia.

   ``We believe that this model of business, academic and
government collaboration can be applied at the federal level,''
said Bill Todd, president of the Georgia Research Alliance.
``Speaker Gingrich is looking for a new national science policy,
and we are taking advantage of that opportunity to recommend a way
in which the federal government can become a partner in a way the
state government has.''

   The alliance plans to continue working with the Georgia
congressional delegation to explore potential research
partnerships.

   Also, the GRA board voted Thursday to reappoint James H.
Blanchard, CEO of Columbus-based Synovus Financial Corp., as its
chairman. It also elected F. Duane Ackerman, chairman and CEO of
BellSouth Corp., as its first-ever vice chairman.

   Goodwill for Games

   With one month left to go before the Goodwill Games begin, an
important challenge already has been reached.

   The SuperChallenge, launched nearly a year ago, called for
viewers of the TBS Superstation to volunteer their time and donate
their dollars to the Boys &AMP; Girls Clubs of America in conjunction
with the Goodwill Games.

   The stated goal at the time was to raise $1 million and get 1
million volunteer hours in the name of the Goodwill Games to
parallel its new mission of helping children, both domestically and
internationally.

   ``We had always hoped to do it by the start of the Games, but we
didn't know if we would get there,'' said Bill Burke, president of
the Atlanta-based TBS Superstation. ``The clubs are thrilled.''

   To date, the televised drive to get people to contribute (by
calling 1-800-854-CLUB) has raised just over $1 million and
1,262,919 hours of volunteer time.

   A total of 31,657 people called to contribute either time, money
or both since the campaign was launched early last fall. Employees
of Turner Broadcasting System alone represented 6,930 of those
calls.

   Because the Superstation is on cable nationally (and broadcast
in Atlanta on Channel 17), the contributions of callers were
allocated to their communities.

   Even though the SuperChallenge has met its challenge, it may not
be the end of a partnership between the Superstation and the Boys &AMP;
Girls Club.

   ``We are already talking about the future,'' Burke said. ``We
have some ideas.''

   Town Talk

   Judicial Arbitration &AMP; Mediation Services, (JAMS/Endispute), the
nation's leading provider of mediation legal services, has
appointed R. Wayne Thorpe as director of the Atlanta office,
located at Peachtree Center. Formerly Thorpe was a litigation
partner with Alston &AMP; Bird. He has extensive experience in
commercial, environmental, product liability, personal injury and
insurance cases.

   Thorpe also was appointed by the Georgia Supreme Court to the
Georgia Commission on Dispute Resolution Ethics Committee, and is
co-chair of the Ethics Committee of the ABA Section on Dispute
Resolution.

   Kilpatrick Stockton's co-chairman, Miles Alexander, has been
named the second-best trademark lawyer in the world by Managing
Intellectual Property Magazine. Alexander is the only attorney in
the Southeast to be named to the prestigious list.

   Wayne Woody, a partner in the Atlanta office of KPMG Peat
Marwick, has been named chairman of the 1998 metro Atlanta American
Heart Walk presented by Sportslife. The 1998 Heart Walk expects to
raise more than $500,000 for the American Heart Association's
research and education programs.

   The Georgia Industry Association is sponsoring a statewide
televised debate between candidates for lieutenant governor on June
24 in Savannah, at its annual membership meeting. A majority of
qualified candidates from both parties have confirmed they will
participate. The debate will be broadcast live statewide on Georgia
Public Television. The organization's president is Carol Heaton,
president of Heaton Erecting Inc. She is the first woman to head
the male-dominated association, which has about 150 members.

   Rudy Beserra, assistant vice president of Latin corporate
affairs of Coca-Cola Co., was named chairman of the Atlanta
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce for 1998-99. The Hispanic chamber will
hold its annual awards dinner July 11 in Buckhead.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Gingrich plan heartens research group
 &HT;    By Maria Saporta
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATLANTA -- When U.S. Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) appealed this
week for the doubling of the federal budget for basic research,
leaders of the Georgia Research Alliance were paying attention.

   Several of the alliance's directors already had taken a trip to
Washington in April to meet with Georgia's congressional
delegation. The purpose of the trip was to develop closer ties
between federal initiatives and the six research universities in
Georgia.

   Up to now, the alliance has been the baby of the state of
Georgia. It was started in the early 1990s as a way to develop
research partnerships between public and private universities in
the state and to encourage high-technology development in Georgia.

   ``We believe that this model of business, academic and
government collaboration can be applied at the federal level,''
said Bill Todd, president of the Georgia Research Alliance.
``Speaker Gingrich is looking for a new national science policy,
and we are taking advantage of that opportunity to recommend a way
in which the federal government can become a partner in a way the
state government has.''

   The alliance plans to continue working with the Georgia
congressional delegation to explore potential research
partnerships.

   Also, the GRA board voted Thursday to reappoint James H.
Blanchard, CEO of Columbus-based Synovus Financial Corp., as its
chairman. It also elected F. Duane Ackerman, chairman and CEO of
BellSouth Corp., as its first-ever vice chairman.

   Goodwill for Games

   With one month left to go before the Goodwill Games begin, an
important challenge already has been reached.

   The SuperChallenge, launched nearly a year ago, called for
viewers of the TBS Superstation to volunteer their time and donate
their dollars to the Boys &AMP; Girls Clubs of America in conjunction
with the Goodwill Games.

   The stated goal at the time was to raise $1 million and get 1
million volunteer hours in the name of the Goodwill Games to
parallel its new mission of helping children, both domestically and
internationally.

   ``We had always hoped to do it by the start of the Games, but we
didn't know if we would get there,'' said Bill Burke, president of
the Atlanta-based TBS Superstation. ``The clubs are thrilled.''

   To date, the televised drive to get people to contribute (by
calling 1-800-854-CLUB) has raised just over $1 million and
1,262,919 hours of volunteer time.

   A total of 31,657 people called to contribute either time, money
or both since the campaign was launched early last fall. Employees
of Turner Broadcasting System alone represented 6,930 of those
calls.

   Because the Superstation is on cable nationally (and broadcast
in Atlanta on Channel 17), the contributions of callers were
allocated to their communities.

   Even though the SuperChallenge has met its challenge, it may not
be the end of a partnership between the Superstation and the Boys &AMP;
Girls Club.

   ``We are already talking about the future,'' Burke said. ``We
have some ideas.''

   Town Talk

   Judicial Arbitration &AMP; Mediation Services, (JAMS/Endispute), the
nation's leading provider of mediation legal services, has
appointed R. Wayne Thorpe as director of the Atlanta office,
located at Peachtree Center. Formerly Thorpe was a litigation
partner with Alston &AMP; Bird. He has extensive experience in
commercial, environmental, product liability, personal injury and
insurance cases.

   Thorpe also was appointed by the Georgia Supreme Court to the
Georgia Commission on Dispute Resolution Ethics Committee, and is
co-chair of the Ethics Committee of the ABA Section on Dispute
Resolution.

   Kilpatrick Stockton's co-chairman, Miles Alexander, has been
named the second-best trademark lawyer in the world by Managing
Intellectual Property Magazine. Alexander is the only attorney in
the Southeast to be named to the prestigious list.

   Wayne Woody, a partner in the Atlanta office of KPMG Peat
Marwick, has been named chairman of the 1998 metro Atlanta American
Heart Walk presented by Sportslife. The 1998 Heart Walk expects to
raise more than $500,000 for the American Heart Association's
research and education programs.

   The Georgia Industry Association is sponsoring a statewide
televised debate between candidates for lieutenant governor on June
24 in Savannah, at its annual membership meeting. A majority of
qualified candidates from both parties have confirmed they will
participate. The debate will be broadcast live statewide on Georgia
Public Television. The organization's president is Carol Heaton,
president of Heaton Erecting Inc. She is the first woman to head
the male-dominated association, which has about 150 members.

   Rudy Beserra, assistant vice president of Latin corporate
affairs of Coca-Cola Co., was named chairman of the Atlanta
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce for 1998-99. The Hispanic chamber will
hold its annual awards dinner July 11 in Buckhead.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0338 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:07 ',
			header: '
A5475 &Cx1f; tad-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SUPERCOM-COX     06-11 0593
',
			slug: ' BC-SUPERCOM-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   ATLANTA -- Technology is changing so rapidly, economist George
Gilder said Thursday, people buying the latest in personal
computers are still like cavemen tapping away in the dark.

   Instead of boxes sitting on desktops, the personal computer of
tomorrow _ say, five years from now _ will be as small as
palm-sized cellular phones, but far more powerful and versatile
than today's PCs.

   At least that's the view of Gilder, a Reagan-era economist
turned technology guru who spoke at Thursday's closing session of
Supercomm. The telecommunications and information conference at the
Georgia World Congress Center is scheduled to return to Atlanta
June 6-10, 1999.

   ``The most popular PC of the next level will be ... as portable
as your watch, as personal as your wallet,'' said Gilder, 58, a
writer of books and articles for magazines such as Forbes. ``It
will recognize speech; it will navigate streets.''

   Operating with the technology of a cellular phone, the
next-generation personal computers will have wireless Internet
access, Gilder said. Thus, even without access to a phone line,
people will be able to transmit electronic mail, read newspapers
and search the Web.

   People will be able to write as they drive, using speech
recognition to talk into their computers rather than type on a
keyboard, Gilder said. Those who want to work at home or the office
can plug in their machines to electrical sockets and hook them up
to full-sized monitors.

   These evolving technologies are available, for instance, as
mapping and speech-recognition software. But Gilder predicted
they'll become more reliable and affordable as manufacturers pump
billions of dollars into the potentially lucrative technologies.

   Spurring the investment, Gilder said, is a scarcity of time.
People are so obsessed by time _ ``time to market, time to
retirement, Michael (Jordan's) hang time,'' Gilder said _ that
technology is emerging to help people burdened by everyday tasks
and companies scrambling to transmit vast amounts of information.

   Experts predict the Internet will increasingly perform those
tasks, with competition driving down costs for the rising number of
Internet users. One of the biggest roadblocks, Gilder said, is
federal regulations of emerging technologies.

   Rising to prominence as a supply-side economist during the
Reagan presidency, Gilder is an unabashed critic of federal
intervention in capitalism. For instance, he lambasted the recent
lawsuits by the U.S. Justice Department against software giant
Microsoft and by the Federal Trade Commission against chip maker
Intel.

   ``We are really going to regret inviting the government in to
supervise software,'' said Gilder, referring to the government's
allegations that Microsoft's bundling of its Internet browser with
its Windows 98 software is unfair to competitors. In the Intel
case, the government accuses the company of withholding information
about chip designs from three companies it was fighting in patent
disputes.

   Gilder also criticized television as ``the top-down tool of
tyrants,'' contending the general public has limited choice in the
programs it watches. By contrast, he said, the Internet offers
``millions of choices.''

   ``All of the virtues of the Internet will become more
conspicious as time goes on,'' Gilder said.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Technology guru foresees smaller, more powerful PCs
 &HT;    By Chris Burritt
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATLANTA -- Technology is changing so rapidly, economist George
Gilder said Thursday, people buying the latest in personal
computers are still like cavemen tapping away in the dark.

   Instead of boxes sitting on desktops, the personal computer of
tomorrow _ say, five years from now _ will be as small as
palm-sized cellular phones, but far more powerful and versatile
than today's PCs.

   At least that's the view of Gilder, a Reagan-era economist
turned technology guru who spoke at Thursday's closing session of
Supercomm. The telecommunications and information conference at the
Georgia World Congress Center is scheduled to return to Atlanta
June 6-10, 1999.

   ``The most popular PC of the next level will be ... as portable
as your watch, as personal as your wallet,'' said Gilder, 58, a
writer of books and articles for magazines such as Forbes. ``It
will recognize speech; it will navigate streets.''

   Operating with the technology of a cellular phone, the
next-generation personal computers will have wireless Internet
access, Gilder said. Thus, even without access to a phone line,
people will be able to transmit electronic mail, read newspapers
and search the Web.

   People will be able to write as they drive, using speech
recognition to talk into their computers rather than type on a
keyboard, Gilder said. Those who want to work at home or the office
can plug in their machines to electrical sockets and hook them up
to full-sized monitors.

   These evolving technologies are available, for instance, as
mapping and speech-recognition software. But Gilder predicted
they'll become more reliable and affordable as manufacturers pump
billions of dollars into the potentially lucrative technologies.

   Spurring the investment, Gilder said, is a scarcity of time.
People are so obsessed by time _ ``time to market, time to
retirement, Michael (Jordan's) hang time,'' Gilder said _ that
technology is emerging to help people burdened by everyday tasks
and companies scrambling to transmit vast amounts of information.

   Experts predict the Internet will increasingly perform those
tasks, with competition driving down costs for the rising number of
Internet users. One of the biggest roadblocks, Gilder said, is
federal regulations of emerging technologies.

   Rising to prominence as a supply-side economist during the
Reagan presidency, Gilder is an unabashed critic of federal
intervention in capitalism. For instance, he lambasted the recent
lawsuits by the U.S. Justice Department against software giant
Microsoft and by the Federal Trade Commission against chip maker
Intel.

   ``We are really going to regret inviting the government in to
supervise software,'' said Gilder, referring to the government's
allegations that Microsoft's bundling of its Internet browser with
its Windows 98 software is unfair to competitors. In the Intel
case, the government accuses the company of withholding information
about chip designs from three companies it was fighting in patent
disputes.

   Gilder also criticized television as ``the top-down tool of
tyrants,'' contending the general public has limited choice in the
programs it watches. By contrast, he said, the Internet offers
``millions of choices.''

   ``All of the virtues of the Internet will become more
conspicious as time goes on,'' Gilder said.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0339 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:07 ',
			header: '
A5476 &Cx1f; tad-z
u e &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TUPAC-COX     06-11 0486
',
			slug: ' BC-TUPAC-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   ATLANTA -- There's a lot of healing in sharing. Or at least
that's what Afeni Shakur keeps telling herself as what would have
been her only son's 27th birthday approaches.

   Rapper-actor Tupac Shakur died Sept. 13, 1996, six days after a
still-unidentified assailant sprayed bullets into the car in which
he was riding. Since his death, ``all we've been doing is coming
together and grieving,'' Afeni Shakur remarks with a smile through
clenched teeth, one she uses to fight back tears. But the one she
flashes most during this recent Saturday in Decatur is out of
happiness.

   It swells in the bib of her light blue overalls when one of her
two grandchildren, Nzingha, 4, and Malik, 2, shows her a new trick.
It lights up the face under her small, matted red dreadlocks.
Especially when a young woman comes over and asks for a hug.

   ``Ms. Shakur, I just love you,'' she declares. ``I'm a single
mother too! And my son is in jail.''

   ``I feel you, sister,'' Shakur replies. ``And I love you, too.''

   This is the kind of sharing and healing that she hopes will go
on at the two-day celebration of her son's life. It begins with a
private dinner and concert tonight at the Atrium, near her Decatur
home. It continues Saturday with an all-day festival in Mayfield,
an hour southeast of Atlanta.

   ``This show is going to mean a lot to me because Tupac and Ms.
Shakur have meant a lot to me,'' says R&AMP;B vocalist Jon B, who will
be making his first Atlanta-area appearance. ``Pac and I recorded
`R U Still Down' together, and when he died, Death Row (Records)
put a hold on a lot of stuff. But Ms. Shakur stepped in and got
them to release it. And for that, man, I'm forever grateful.''

   ``I think this year we can really celebrate Tupac's birthday
because ... I think there's been enough time for the evolution of
the grief,'' says Shakur.

   And things have gotten better. Last year, for instance, Shakur
launched Atlanta-based Amaru Records, which released a
4-million-selling collection of Tupac's recordings. The move has
earned the praise of rapper-entrepreneur Lisa ``Left-Eye'' Lopes, a
friend of Tupac's. ``She should do just like Elvis' family has _
keep his music out there and his spirit alive,'' Lopes says.

   Some may think the May 29 death of Orlando Anderson, the man
widely believed to have killed Tupac, would console Shakur. It
doesn't. ``It has absolutely no effect on my life,'' she says.
``Orlando died, and I think two other people were killed. And what
I have to say about it is there have been three more black males
killed. And there are some more parents crying. It's the same cycle
of violence that killed my son. That doesn't make me happy at
all.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Sharing pain, healing hurt: A celebration for Tupac
 &HT;    By Sonia Murray
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATLANTA -- There's a lot of healing in sharing. Or at least
that's what Afeni Shakur keeps telling herself as what would have
been her only son's 27th birthday approaches.

   Rapper-actor Tupac Shakur died Sept. 13, 1996, six days after a
still-unidentified assailant sprayed bullets into the car in which
he was riding. Since his death, ``all we've been doing is coming
together and grieving,'' Afeni Shakur remarks with a smile through
clenched teeth, one she uses to fight back tears. But the one she
flashes most during this recent Saturday in Decatur is out of
happiness.

   It swells in the bib of her light blue overalls when one of her
two grandchildren, Nzingha, 4, and Malik, 2, shows her a new trick.
It lights up the face under her small, matted red dreadlocks.
Especially when a young woman comes over and asks for a hug.

   ``Ms. Shakur, I just love you,'' she declares. ``I'm a single
mother too! And my son is in jail.''

   ``I feel you, sister,'' Shakur replies. ``And I love you, too.''

   This is the kind of sharing and healing that she hopes will go
on at the two-day celebration of her son's life. It begins with a
private dinner and concert tonight at the Atrium, near her Decatur
home. It continues Saturday with an all-day festival in Mayfield,
an hour southeast of Atlanta.

   ``This show is going to mean a lot to me because Tupac and Ms.
Shakur have meant a lot to me,'' says R&AMP;B vocalist Jon B, who will
be making his first Atlanta-area appearance. ``Pac and I recorded
`R U Still Down' together, and when he died, Death Row (Records)
put a hold on a lot of stuff. But Ms. Shakur stepped in and got
them to release it. And for that, man, I'm forever grateful.''

   ``I think this year we can really celebrate Tupac's birthday
because ... I think there's been enough time for the evolution of
the grief,'' says Shakur.

   And things have gotten better. Last year, for instance, Shakur
launched Atlanta-based Amaru Records, which released a
4-million-selling collection of Tupac's recordings. The move has
earned the praise of rapper-entrepreneur Lisa ``Left-Eye'' Lopes, a
friend of Tupac's. ``She should do just like Elvis' family has _
keep his music out there and his spirit alive,'' Lopes says.

   Some may think the May 29 death of Orlando Anderson, the man
widely believed to have killed Tupac, would console Shakur. It
doesn't. ``It has absolutely no effect on my life,'' she says.
``Orlando died, and I think two other people were killed. And what
I have to say about it is there have been three more black males
killed. And there are some more parents crying. It's the same cycle
of violence that killed my son. That doesn't make me happy at
all.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0340 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:10 ',
			header: '
A5478 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BBA-YANKS-WILLIAMS-40     06-11 0792
',
			slug: ' BC-BBA-YANKS-WILLIAMS-400&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
SPRAINED KNEE PUTS WILLIAMS ON SIDELINES FOR AT LEAST 3 WEEKS 
',
			trailer: '
   MONTREAL _ Bernie Williams, the Yankees' center fielder, is
expected to be out at least the rest of June after sustaining what
the team believes is a sprained right knee in Wednesday's game. He
is not the first star to be lost this season: Derek Jeter, Mariano
Rivera, Tino Martinez and Chili Davis have all been out of action
at one time or another.

   But to play without Williams at this point is perhaps the most
formidable challenge to this team's chances for lasting greatness.
The Yankees went into Thursday night's game with a 46-13 record and
nine consecutive victories, winning at a rate that would result in
126 victories and an obliteration of many modern-day records for
success.

   Williams is the Yankees' best defensive outfielder. He is
hitting .353. He has a team-high 10 home runs and, as the
switch-hitter who bats between two left-handed hitters _ Paul
O'Neill and Tino Martinez _ in the middle of the lineup, he is a
crucial piece in the Yankees' attack.

   Williams underwent a magnetic resonance imaging scan Thursday in
New York, and according to Joe Torre, the Yankees' manager, the
tests confirmed the initial diagnosis of a sprained knee.

   Williams has no torn knee ligaments, Torre said, adding that the
center fielder will likely be sidelined beyond June 27, the date he
can be activated. Brian Cashman, the Yankees' general manager, said
that Stuart Hershon, the team doctor, told him Williams will be out
at least three weeks, possibly longer.

   Chad Curtis, the starting left fielder most of this season, will
move to center, and Ricky Ledee is being promoted from Class AAA
Columbus to share time in left with the veterans Tim Raines and
Darryl Strawberry. This, just as the Yankees dive into the toughest
part of their schedule.

   They play host to the Cleveland Indians, the first-place team in
the American League Central, in a three-game series beginning
Friday, then play three in Baltimore and four in Cleveland.

   Then they play the Atlanta Braves _ who possess baseball's
second-best record _ four games in four days, two at Yankee
Stadium, two in Atlanta. After that, from June 26-28, there will be
three games in Shea Stadium against the revitalized Mets.

   ``That's the way it is,'' Torre said. ``You can't let it consume
you. You can't.''

   Torre noted that during the Yankees' current winning streak,
their pitching and defense have driven the team, not the offense.

   ``And the fact that we do have a diverse offense,'' said Torre,
referring to the club's speed and ability to draw walks, ``will
show up.''

   As Williams slid into third base in the sixth inning of
Wednesday's game, his right foot seemed to catch in the dirt and
the momentum of his forward motion contorted his body, driving his
knee into an awkward position.

   Williams tested the knee, said he felt well enough to continue,
scored a run and played defense in the bottom of the inning.
Williams then felt his knee begin to stiffen, and after returning
to the bench for the seventh, he removed himself from the game.
After the game, he said his knee greatly pained him.

   After the tests Thursday, Cashman said that Hershon called him
and offered good news and bad. ``He said it could have been
worse,'' Cashman related. ``But he's out three weeks or more.''

   Some players, like Cal Ripken, seem to heal overnight. Williams
is considered a deliberate healer. Twice he went on the disabled
list last season, and with Curtis playing center field, the Yankees
went 22-11. Cashman said he is not seeking to deal for another
center fielder.

   ``I have all the confidence in Curtis,'' Cashman said.

   Curtis said: ``If there's a player we would miss the most, it
probably would be Bernie. My favorite position to play is center
field, but I'd rather play left field and have Bernie here.''

   Curtis, who is seeking a three-year extension from the Yankees
and said he expects to complete a deal ``in the next couple of
days,'' started in center field Thursday night.

   Ledee, regarded as the Yankees' best outfield prospect, was
hitting .291 for Columbus, with 13 home runs and 25 runs batted in
in 57 games. Torre hit O'Neill and Martinez third and fourth,
respectively, Thursday night but said he may insert another hitter
in between them in the games to come _ possibly Curtis, or third
baseman Scott Brosius, or catcher Jorge Posada.

   Some help is on the way: The Yankees expect Jeter to be ready to
play when he is eligible to come off the disabled list June 21. &QL;
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 By BUSTER OLNEY    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   MONTREAL _ Bernie Williams, the Yankees' center fielder, is
expected to be out at least the rest of June after sustaining what
the team believes is a sprained right knee in Wednesday's game. He
is not the first star to be lost this season: Derek Jeter, Mariano
Rivera, Tino Martinez and Chili Davis have all been out of action
at one time or another.

   But to play without Williams at this point is perhaps the most
formidable challenge to this team's chances for lasting greatness.
The Yankees went into Thursday night's game with a 46-13 record and
nine consecutive victories, winning at a rate that would result in
126 victories and an obliteration of many modern-day records for
success.

   Williams is the Yankees' best defensive outfielder. He is
hitting .353. He has a team-high 10 home runs and, as the
switch-hitter who bats between two left-handed hitters _ Paul
O'Neill and Tino Martinez _ in the middle of the lineup, he is a
crucial piece in the Yankees' attack.

   Williams underwent a magnetic resonance imaging scan Thursday in
New York, and according to Joe Torre, the Yankees' manager, the
tests confirmed the initial diagnosis of a sprained knee.

   Williams has no torn knee ligaments, Torre said, adding that the
center fielder will likely be sidelined beyond June 27, the date he
can be activated. Brian Cashman, the Yankees' general manager, said
that Stuart Hershon, the team doctor, told him Williams will be out
at least three weeks, possibly longer.

   Chad Curtis, the starting left fielder most of this season, will
move to center, and Ricky Ledee is being promoted from Class AAA
Columbus to share time in left with the veterans Tim Raines and
Darryl Strawberry. This, just as the Yankees dive into the toughest
part of their schedule.

   They play host to the Cleveland Indians, the first-place team in
the American League Central, in a three-game series beginning
Friday, then play three in Baltimore and four in Cleveland.

   Then they play the Atlanta Braves _ who possess baseball's
second-best record _ four games in four days, two at Yankee
Stadium, two in Atlanta. After that, from June 26-28, there will be
three games in Shea Stadium against the revitalized Mets.

   ``That's the way it is,'' Torre said. ``You can't let it consume
you. You can't.''

   Torre noted that during the Yankees' current winning streak,
their pitching and defense have driven the team, not the offense.

   ``And the fact that we do have a diverse offense,'' said Torre,
referring to the club's speed and ability to draw walks, ``will
show up.''

   As Williams slid into third base in the sixth inning of
Wednesday's game, his right foot seemed to catch in the dirt and
the momentum of his forward motion contorted his body, driving his
knee into an awkward position.

   Williams tested the knee, said he felt well enough to continue,
scored a run and played defense in the bottom of the inning.
Williams then felt his knee begin to stiffen, and after returning
to the bench for the seventh, he removed himself from the game.
After the game, he said his knee greatly pained him.

   After the tests Thursday, Cashman said that Hershon called him
and offered good news and bad. ``He said it could have been
worse,'' Cashman related. ``But he's out three weeks or more.''

   Some players, like Cal Ripken, seem to heal overnight. Williams
is considered a deliberate healer. Twice he went on the disabled
list last season, and with Curtis playing center field, the Yankees
went 22-11. Cashman said he is not seeking to deal for another
center fielder.

   ``I have all the confidence in Curtis,'' Cashman said.

   Curtis said: ``If there's a player we would miss the most, it
probably would be Bernie. My favorite position to play is center
field, but I'd rather play left field and have Bernie here.''

   Curtis, who is seeking a three-year extension from the Yankees
and said he expects to complete a deal ``in the next couple of
days,'' started in center field Thursday night.

   Ledee, regarded as the Yankees' best outfield prospect, was
hitting .291 for Columbus, with 13 home runs and 25 runs batted in
in 57 games. Torre hit O'Neill and Martinez third and fourth,
respectively, Thursday night but said he may insert another hitter
in between them in the games to come _ possibly Curtis, or third
baseman Scott Brosius, or catcher Jorge Posada.

   Some help is on the way: The Yankees expect Jeter to be ready to
play when he is eligible to come off the disabled list June 21. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0341 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:11 ',
			header: '
A5480 &Cx1f; taf-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TOBACCO-CONGRESS-1stL     06-11 1196
',
			slug: ' BC-TOBACCO-CONGRESS-1stLd-Writehru-ART-NYT ',
			headline: '
SENATE REJECTS PROPOSAL TO LIMIT LAWYERS' FEES IN TOBACCO SUITS 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ For the second time in a month, the Senate on
Thursday rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies.

   The issue was one of the few critical ones remaining before the
Senate in the comprehensive tobacco legislation, probably the
biggest and most contentious bill before Congress this year.

   The Senate is not likely to consider the issue of legal fees
again in connection with this bill, which has been in the Senate
for debate since the middle of May. Indications were that a final
vote could come next week.

   Complaining that some trial lawyers stand to make tens and even
hundreds of millions of dollars from tobacco lawsuits, Republicans
tried and failed May 18 to impose a $250 an hour limit on legal
fees.

   Thursday, they raised the limit to $1,000 an hour and still
lost, on a vote of 50-45.

   Sen. Lauch Faircloth, R-N.C., who was the chief sponsor of the
amendment, declared that lawyers should be ashamed for seeking such
large fees.

   ``The federal government,'' he declared, ``cannot put its stamp
on legislation that diverts billions of dollars from taxpayers to
pay trial lawyers grossly excessive fees.''

   Sen. Michael Enzi, R-Wyo., said he was flabbergasted that anyone
could object to such a high ceiling on legal payments. ``A thousand
dollars an hour!'' he declared. ``There are a lot of people in my
state who don't make that much in a month.''

   But Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., countered that the trial
lawyers were heroes, not villains, having taken enormous risks in
challenging the cigarette makers and should not have their
compensation limited.

   The lawyers brought suits ``when we were asleep at the switch,''
he said, making a sweeping gesture at the Senate chamber, ``not
doing anything about children smoking.''

   A former trial lawyer himself, Hollings expressed contempt for
``the corporate billable hour fellow sitting on his duff and
charging for it.''

   The anti-smoking bill before the Senate would still establish an
arbitration panel to decide the proper fees in successful suits
against cigarette companies.

   The Senate also voted Thursday for a Democratic amendment that
would set aside some of the money raised from the higher prices on
cigarettes to give grants to the states for child-care programs.

   After disposing of the issue of lawyers' fees, the Senate turned
to a less contested amendment that would restrict the tax
deductions cigarette makers could take for their advertising
expenses. A vote is not expected on that until Monday.

   Several other similar amendments unlikely to affect the eventual
fate of the legislation are also pending. The most difficult
remaining issue involves whether the government's price-support
program for tobacco farmers should be abolished and how farmers and
communities that are economically dependent on tobacco should be
compensated.

   The basic bill would raise the price of cigarettes by at least
$1.10 a pack over five years, give the Food and Drug Administration
new authority to regulate tobacco, create new smoking-cessation and
research programs and impose stiff penalties on cigarette makers if
the number of teen-agers who smoke does not fall to specified
levels.

   The chief sponsor of the legislation, Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz.,
suggested Thursday that the time was near when the Senate should
end the debate and vote on the bill. Negotiations seemed to be
under way to work out an end game.

   For the third straight day, the Senate, voting along party
lines, rejected Thursday a Democratic move, called cloture, to stop
the debate.

   As long as Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott opposes cloture,
Republicans will back him, and the move will fail. But the word in
the cloakrooms Thursday was that it was only a matter of time
before Lott offered a cloture motion himself. If that happens, the
bill will probably be passed.

   Lott said Thursday afternoon that he had not decided what course
to take.

   The situation is much more problematic in the House. Republican
leaders there are opposed to higher taxes on cigarettes and want
much less ambitious legislation than the Senate package.

   The question of lawyers' fees is a highly partisan one that goes
well beyond the tobacco issue.

   Trial lawyers are among the Democrats' most generous donors and
loyal supporters. For years, President Clinton and Democrats in
Congress have fought Republican attempts to make it more difficult
for consumers to collect money from damage suits over faulty
products.

   Republicans, on the other hand, depend on business interests for
political support. Many businesses are generally afraid of damage
suits and especially fearful that lawyers will use a windfall from
tobacco cases to bankroll lawsuits against companies in other
fields.

   On the vote Thursday, 12 Republicans, including Sen. Alfonse
D'Amato of New York, broke ranks and voted to reject the limit on
lawyers' fees. Only four Democrats, including Christopher Dodd and
Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut, voted to impose the limit.

   Because they do not have the resources to sue the tobacco
companies on their own, many states have signed contracts with
private lawyers with a promise of paying them a percentage of the
damages if they won. But when these contracts were signed, no one
had any idea how large the awards might be.

   Faircloth calculated that if the lawyers received 15 percent of
the total the government would collect in the settlement of
lawsuits under the tobacco legislation now under consideration, the
total would come to $4 billion a year.

   One thousand dollars an hour is much more than even the most
elite lawyers who charge by the hour earn. But those who sue the
tobacco companies spend large amounts of time and their own money,
and they make nothing if the suits are unsuccessful.

   The archetype of the lawyer who took that kind of risk is
Richard Scruggs, who put up $5 million of his own money to bring
Mississippi's trailblazing suit against the tobacco industry. The
industry settled with the state last year for $3.3 billion.

   So far, Scruggs has received nothing. He has said that his fee
will be determined by arbitrators. But even if he receives 1
percent, a very low contingency fee, that would be $33 million.

   Scruggs, who is Lott's brother-in-law (their wives are sisters)
was in the VIP gallery Thursday watching the debate. ``I didn't
know whether to stand up and take a bow or put a bag over my
head,'' he said afterward.

   Because of his family connection, Lott voted ``present'' on the
amendment Thursday.
',
			body: '


  
 (subs 8th graf to fix Sen. Enzi's state; he is from Wyoming, not
Arizona)  
 (ATTN: N.C., N.Y., Conn., Ariz., S.C.)  (ART ADV: Photo is being sent to NYT photo clients. Non-subscribers
can make individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(bl) 
 By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ For the second time in a month, the Senate on
Thursday rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies.

   The issue was one of the few critical ones remaining before the
Senate in the comprehensive tobacco legislation, probably the
biggest and most contentious bill before Congress this year.

   The Senate is not likely to consider the issue of legal fees
again in connection with this bill, which has been in the Senate
for debate since the middle of May. Indications were that a final
vote could come next week.

   Complaining that some trial lawyers stand to make tens and even
hundreds of millions of dollars from tobacco lawsuits, Republicans
tried and failed May 18 to impose a $250 an hour limit on legal
fees.

   Thursday, they raised the limit to $1,000 an hour and still
lost, on a vote of 50-45.

   Sen. Lauch Faircloth, R-N.C., who was the chief sponsor of the
amendment, declared that lawyers should be ashamed for seeking such
large fees.

   ``The federal government,'' he declared, ``cannot put its stamp
on legislation that diverts billions of dollars from taxpayers to
pay trial lawyers grossly excessive fees.''

   Sen. Michael Enzi, R-Wyo., said he was flabbergasted that anyone
could object to such a high ceiling on legal payments. ``A thousand
dollars an hour!'' he declared. ``There are a lot of people in my
state who don't make that much in a month.''

   But Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., countered that the trial
lawyers were heroes, not villains, having taken enormous risks in
challenging the cigarette makers and should not have their
compensation limited.

   The lawyers brought suits ``when we were asleep at the switch,''
he said, making a sweeping gesture at the Senate chamber, ``not
doing anything about children smoking.''

   A former trial lawyer himself, Hollings expressed contempt for
``the corporate billable hour fellow sitting on his duff and
charging for it.''

   The anti-smoking bill before the Senate would still establish an
arbitration panel to decide the proper fees in successful suits
against cigarette companies.

   The Senate also voted Thursday for a Democratic amendment that
would set aside some of the money raised from the higher prices on
cigarettes to give grants to the states for child-care programs.

   After disposing of the issue of lawyers' fees, the Senate turned
to a less contested amendment that would restrict the tax
deductions cigarette makers could take for their advertising
expenses. A vote is not expected on that until Monday.

   Several other similar amendments unlikely to affect the eventual
fate of the legislation are also pending. The most difficult
remaining issue involves whether the government's price-support
program for tobacco farmers should be abolished and how farmers and
communities that are economically dependent on tobacco should be
compensated.

   The basic bill would raise the price of cigarettes by at least
$1.10 a pack over five years, give the Food and Drug Administration
new authority to regulate tobacco, create new smoking-cessation and
research programs and impose stiff penalties on cigarette makers if
the number of teen-agers who smoke does not fall to specified
levels.

   The chief sponsor of the legislation, Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz.,
suggested Thursday that the time was near when the Senate should
end the debate and vote on the bill. Negotiations seemed to be
under way to work out an end game.

   For the third straight day, the Senate, voting along party
lines, rejected Thursday a Democratic move, called cloture, to stop
the debate.

   As long as Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott opposes cloture,
Republicans will back him, and the move will fail. But the word in
the cloakrooms Thursday was that it was only a matter of time
before Lott offered a cloture motion himself. If that happens, the
bill will probably be passed.

   Lott said Thursday afternoon that he had not decided what course
to take.

   The situation is much more problematic in the House. Republican
leaders there are opposed to higher taxes on cigarettes and want
much less ambitious legislation than the Senate package.

   The question of lawyers' fees is a highly partisan one that goes
well beyond the tobacco issue.

   Trial lawyers are among the Democrats' most generous donors and
loyal supporters. For years, President Clinton and Democrats in
Congress have fought Republican attempts to make it more difficult
for consumers to collect money from damage suits over faulty
products.

   Republicans, on the other hand, depend on business interests for
political support. Many businesses are generally afraid of damage
suits and especially fearful that lawyers will use a windfall from
tobacco cases to bankroll lawsuits against companies in other
fields.

   On the vote Thursday, 12 Republicans, including Sen. Alfonse
D'Amato of New York, broke ranks and voted to reject the limit on
lawyers' fees. Only four Democrats, including Christopher Dodd and
Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut, voted to impose the limit.

   Because they do not have the resources to sue the tobacco
companies on their own, many states have signed contracts with
private lawyers with a promise of paying them a percentage of the
damages if they won. But when these contracts were signed, no one
had any idea how large the awards might be.

   Faircloth calculated that if the lawyers received 15 percent of
the total the government would collect in the settlement of
lawsuits under the tobacco legislation now under consideration, the
total would come to $4 billion a year.

   One thousand dollars an hour is much more than even the most
elite lawyers who charge by the hour earn. But those who sue the
tobacco companies spend large amounts of time and their own money,
and they make nothing if the suits are unsuccessful.

   The archetype of the lawyer who took that kind of risk is
Richard Scruggs, who put up $5 million of his own money to bring
Mississippi's trailblazing suit against the tobacco industry. The
industry settled with the state last year for $3.3 billion.

   So far, Scruggs has received nothing. He has said that his fee
will be determined by arbitrators. But even if he receives 1
percent, a very low contingency fee, that would be $33 million.

   Scruggs, who is Lott's brother-in-law (their wives are sisters)
was in the VIP gallery Thursday watching the debate. ``I didn't
know whether to stand up and take a bow or put a bag over my
head,'' he said afterward.

   Because of his family connection, Lott voted ``present'' on the
amendment Thursday.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0342 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:11 ',
			header: '
A5481 &Cx1f; taf-z
s f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CAR-SMART-SUVs-$ADV14     06-11 0225
',
			slug: ' BC-CAR-SMART-SUVs-$ADV14-NYT ',
			headline: '
YUPPIE ALERT: 4-BY-4 PORSCHES  
 (FOR RELEASE SUNDAY, JUNE 14) 
',
			trailer: '
   No auto company, it seems, can resist the siren call of the
sport utility market. Two Germany car makers, Porsche AG and
Volkswagen AG, are the latest to jump on the off-road bandwagon,
announcing plans to produce jointly a vehicle that each would sell
by 2002.

   Based on a new Porsche platform, the sport utility is described
as larger than a Jeep Grand Cherokee, with full-time all-wheel
drive. Porsche and VW will give their versions different styling
and engines _ a new Porsche power plant and a VW 10- or 12-cylinder
engine derived from one in a concept car shown in Tokyo last fall.

   Porsche plans to invest $600 million in the project; VW did not
disclose an amount. Porsche is to receive about 20,000 of the
annual production of 100,000, and will concentrate on the U.S.
market; VW will get the other 80,000 and will focus on Europe.

   The trade publication Automotive News quoted unidentified
sources as saying the Porsche was likely to be priced around
$85,000 and the VW at less than $55,000.

   The last VW-Porsche collaboration, in the 1970s, produced the
Porsche 914, a relatively cheap mid-engine car that was never
embraced by Porsche aficionados.
',
			body: '


   (af)  
 By MICHELLE KREBS   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   No auto company, it seems, can resist the siren call of the
sport utility market. Two Germany car makers, Porsche AG and
Volkswagen AG, are the latest to jump on the off-road bandwagon,
announcing plans to produce jointly a vehicle that each would sell
by 2002.

   Based on a new Porsche platform, the sport utility is described
as larger than a Jeep Grand Cherokee, with full-time all-wheel
drive. Porsche and VW will give their versions different styling
and engines _ a new Porsche power plant and a VW 10- or 12-cylinder
engine derived from one in a concept car shown in Tokyo last fall.

   Porsche plans to invest $600 million in the project; VW did not
disclose an amount. Porsche is to receive about 20,000 of the
annual production of 100,000, and will concentrate on the U.S.
market; VW will get the other 80,000 and will focus on Europe.

   The trade publication Automotive News quoted unidentified
sources as saying the Porsche was likely to be priced around
$85,000 and the VW at less than $55,000.

   The last VW-Porsche collaboration, in the 1970s, produced the
Porsche 914, a relatively cheap mid-engine car that was never
embraced by Porsche aficionados.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0343 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:12 ',
			header: '
A5482 &Cx1f; taf-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FAA-NORTHWEST-NYT &LR;      06-11 0521
',
			slug: ' BC-FAA-NORTHWEST-NYT ',
			headline: '
DC-UPKEEP BY NORTHWEST IS SUBJECT OF FAA INQUIRY 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ The Federal Aviation Administration is
investigating accusations that Northwest Airlines improperly
maintained its DC-9 aircraft and that the FAA's own principal
maintenance inspector in Minneapolis did not oversee the airline
properly, federal officials and the airline said.

   The aviation agency's deputy associate administrator for
regulation and certification, Margaret Gilligan, confirmed that the
agency was carrying out what she called a ``fact-finding review,''
after three separate accusations, one from an FAA employee, one
from a former Northwest employee, and one from a current employee
of the airline. She said that the accusations had ``some themes in
common'' and that all three were ``credible,'' meaning that they
were sufficiently detailed to allow follow-up. But the agency has
not reached any conclusion about the veracity of the accusations,
she said.

   A spokesman for the airline, Jon Austin, said the FAA had
already concluded there was nothing to the accusations and was
simply completing the paperwork. Federal officials said a major
inquiry was under way.

   The FAA also has begun closer scrutiny of the airline because of
ongoing labor unrest. Mechanics at Northwest have forced the
cancellation of scores of flights, in protest over the course of
contract negotiations. Officials said the current ``fact-finding
review'' was not related to those negotiations.

   Ms. Gilligan would not describe the accusations. She said the
FAA had brought in investigators from another region, because the
accusations involved local FAA officials.

   Other government officials said though that one of the areas
under investigation was the way that Northwest met new requirements
for fire detection and suppression in the cargo holds of the
DC-9's. Northwest and other big airlines agreed to install such
systems after the crash of a Valujet DC-9 in Florida after a fire
in the forward cargo hold.

   On Northwest DC-9's, the cargo holds have drainage holes in the
doors, to assure that water does not accumulate and cause
corrosion. But the holes also provided ventilation, and reduced the
ability of the fire-suppression system to smother a fire. Two
people involved in the investigation said that Northwest had had
the holes plugged, but later, worried about corrosion, Northwest
had the holes re-opened, and thus was no longer in compliance with
the fire-suppression requirement.

   But the Northwest spokesman, Austin, said in a telephone
interview that the airline had simply made the holes smaller.

   Austin said airline officials had met with FAA investigators who
were looking into the performance of local FAA officials. ``We had
a debrief with them, and we said are there safety issues we should
be aware of, and the answer to that was no,'' he said.

   Austin said he understood that the FAA was investigating
accusations against the airline but had already concluded that
there was nothing to them.
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: Minn.) (sw) 
 By MATTHEW L. WALD   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ The Federal Aviation Administration is
investigating accusations that Northwest Airlines improperly
maintained its DC-9 aircraft and that the FAA's own principal
maintenance inspector in Minneapolis did not oversee the airline
properly, federal officials and the airline said.

   The aviation agency's deputy associate administrator for
regulation and certification, Margaret Gilligan, confirmed that the
agency was carrying out what she called a ``fact-finding review,''
after three separate accusations, one from an FAA employee, one
from a former Northwest employee, and one from a current employee
of the airline. She said that the accusations had ``some themes in
common'' and that all three were ``credible,'' meaning that they
were sufficiently detailed to allow follow-up. But the agency has
not reached any conclusion about the veracity of the accusations,
she said.

   A spokesman for the airline, Jon Austin, said the FAA had
already concluded there was nothing to the accusations and was
simply completing the paperwork. Federal officials said a major
inquiry was under way.

   The FAA also has begun closer scrutiny of the airline because of
ongoing labor unrest. Mechanics at Northwest have forced the
cancellation of scores of flights, in protest over the course of
contract negotiations. Officials said the current ``fact-finding
review'' was not related to those negotiations.

   Ms. Gilligan would not describe the accusations. She said the
FAA had brought in investigators from another region, because the
accusations involved local FAA officials.

   Other government officials said though that one of the areas
under investigation was the way that Northwest met new requirements
for fire detection and suppression in the cargo holds of the
DC-9's. Northwest and other big airlines agreed to install such
systems after the crash of a Valujet DC-9 in Florida after a fire
in the forward cargo hold.

   On Northwest DC-9's, the cargo holds have drainage holes in the
doors, to assure that water does not accumulate and cause
corrosion. But the holes also provided ventilation, and reduced the
ability of the fire-suppression system to smother a fire. Two
people involved in the investigation said that Northwest had had
the holes plugged, but later, worried about corrosion, Northwest
had the holes re-opened, and thus was no longer in compliance with
the fire-suppression requirement.

   But the Northwest spokesman, Austin, said in a telephone
interview that the airline had simply made the holes smaller.

   Austin said airline officials had met with FAA investigators who
were looking into the performance of local FAA officials. ``We had
a debrief with them, and we said are there safety issues we should
be aware of, and the answer to that was no,'' he said.

   Austin said he understood that the FAA was investigating
accusations against the airline but had already concluded that
there was nothing to them.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0344 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:12 ',
			header: '
A5483 &Cx1f; tad-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ORLANDO-COX     06-11 0630
',
			slug: ' BC-ORLANDO-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   ORLANDO, Fla. _ The last time Don Gauthier, checked, Mickey
Mouse didn't have horns, and Goofy was still a lovable sidekick.

   As with a lot of residents of this family vacation mecca,
Gauthier can't understand why religious conservatives keep singling
out his city and its best-known corporate citizen as
representatives of all that's gone wrong with America.

   Religious broadcaster Pat Robertson fired the latest salvo this
week on his television program, warning Orlando that it may get hit
by hurricanes or other disasters because city officials put out a
low-key welcome mat for an annual gathering of gays who vacation at
Walt Disney World the first week of June each year.

   ``I'm all for `you believe what you believe, and I believe what
I believe,''' said Gauthier, 73, who has lived here for 30 years.
``But when you start telling other people they have to believe what
you believe, you cross the line.''

   The annual ``Gay Days'' gathering at Disney is not sanctioned by
the theme park, but it does nothing to discourage it, either.

   Orlando City officials voted to hoist rainbow-colored flags on
city lampposts downtown as a sign of welcome for the gay visitors.

   Robertson's comments came Monday on his program, ``The 700
Club.'' After a news report about Christian activists who protested
the ``Gay Days'' at Disney, Robertson issued his warning.

   ``I would warn Orlando that you're right in the way of some
serious hurricanes, and I don't think I'd be waving those flags in
God's face if I were you,'' Robertson said. ``This is not a message
of hate; this is a message of redemption. But a condition like this
will bring about the destruction of your nation. It'll bring about
terrorist bombs, it'll bring earthquakes, tornadoes and possibly a
meteor.''

   Many residents-even some who consider themselves firm
believers_found the comments far-fetched.

   ``I read the Bible, I don't condone homosexuality and I'm
pro-life, but he overstepped his boundaries,'' said Edward Leon,
27. ``He did a serious disservice to the people here who believe in
God.''

   City officials had little comment, other than to say Robertson
has a right to his opinions and that they hope on this issue, he is
not correct.

   The comments have been fodder for radio personalities, as well
as in the town's offices, bars and restaurants, said David Potts,
who works at a downtown pub.

   ``No doubt we're not a perfect town, but that's garbage,'' Potts
said. ``A lot of the basis for religion comes from fear. We have
had some unusual weather, but these preachers are just using it as
an excuse to spew out more lies.''

   The controversy isn't Orlando's first. Last year, the Southern
Baptist Convention asked its members to boycott the Disney company,
its television programs, theme parks and movies because the company
offers benefits to same-sex partners of its employees and because
it has distributed movies and programs portraying gays in a
favorable light.

   Disney owns the ABC television network, which kept the sitcom
``Ellen'' on the air after the main character announced that she
was gay. The program was canceled this spring after its ratings
tumbled.

   Ian Kiehle, who works at a video store, sounded puzzled that
sleepy Orlando could generate such comments.

   ``There's a lot more twisted places than Orlando,'' he said.

   Gauthier agreed.

   ``This is a clean, nice city,'' he said. ``All that's behind a
lot of these religious guys is money. You take the money out of it,
and they'll all be selling vacuum cleaners.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Pat Robertson chides Orlando for 'Gay Days'
 &HT;    By Mike Williams
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   ORLANDO, Fla. _ The last time Don Gauthier, checked, Mickey
Mouse didn't have horns, and Goofy was still a lovable sidekick.

   As with a lot of residents of this family vacation mecca,
Gauthier can't understand why religious conservatives keep singling
out his city and its best-known corporate citizen as
representatives of all that's gone wrong with America.

   Religious broadcaster Pat Robertson fired the latest salvo this
week on his television program, warning Orlando that it may get hit
by hurricanes or other disasters because city officials put out a
low-key welcome mat for an annual gathering of gays who vacation at
Walt Disney World the first week of June each year.

   ``I'm all for `you believe what you believe, and I believe what
I believe,''' said Gauthier, 73, who has lived here for 30 years.
``But when you start telling other people they have to believe what
you believe, you cross the line.''

   The annual ``Gay Days'' gathering at Disney is not sanctioned by
the theme park, but it does nothing to discourage it, either.

   Orlando City officials voted to hoist rainbow-colored flags on
city lampposts downtown as a sign of welcome for the gay visitors.

   Robertson's comments came Monday on his program, ``The 700
Club.'' After a news report about Christian activists who protested
the ``Gay Days'' at Disney, Robertson issued his warning.

   ``I would warn Orlando that you're right in the way of some
serious hurricanes, and I don't think I'd be waving those flags in
God's face if I were you,'' Robertson said. ``This is not a message
of hate; this is a message of redemption. But a condition like this
will bring about the destruction of your nation. It'll bring about
terrorist bombs, it'll bring earthquakes, tornadoes and possibly a
meteor.''

   Many residents-even some who consider themselves firm
believers_found the comments far-fetched.

   ``I read the Bible, I don't condone homosexuality and I'm
pro-life, but he overstepped his boundaries,'' said Edward Leon,
27. ``He did a serious disservice to the people here who believe in
God.''

   City officials had little comment, other than to say Robertson
has a right to his opinions and that they hope on this issue, he is
not correct.

   The comments have been fodder for radio personalities, as well
as in the town's offices, bars and restaurants, said David Potts,
who works at a downtown pub.

   ``No doubt we're not a perfect town, but that's garbage,'' Potts
said. ``A lot of the basis for religion comes from fear. We have
had some unusual weather, but these preachers are just using it as
an excuse to spew out more lies.''

   The controversy isn't Orlando's first. Last year, the Southern
Baptist Convention asked its members to boycott the Disney company,
its television programs, theme parks and movies because the company
offers benefits to same-sex partners of its employees and because
it has distributed movies and programs portraying gays in a
favorable light.

   Disney owns the ABC television network, which kept the sitcom
``Ellen'' on the air after the main character announced that she
was gay. The program was canceled this spring after its ratings
tumbled.

   Ian Kiehle, who works at a video store, sounded puzzled that
sleepy Orlando could generate such comments.

   ``There's a lot more twisted places than Orlando,'' he said.

   Gauthier agreed.

   ``This is a clean, nice city,'' he said. ``All that's behind a
lot of these religious guys is money. You take the money out of it,
and they'll all be selling vacuum cleaners.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0345 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:12 ',
			header: '
A5484 &Cx1f; tad-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-TEXAS-KILL-COX     06-11 0655
',
			slug: ' BC-TEXAS-KILL-COX ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   DA to prepare captial case in Jasper killing

   By MITCH MITCHELL

   Cox News Service

   JASPER, Texas _ Officials at the District Attorney's office here
said Thursday they are preparing to present a capital murder case
to the grand jury in the James Byrd Jr. slaying.

   ``That will happen,'' Jasper County First Assistant District
Attorney Pat Hardy said. ``We'll probably wait until the next grand
jury meets in July.''

   Byrd's torso was located Sunday near Huff Creek Cemetery about
five miles east of Jasper. Authorities allege he was chained to the
rear of a truck then dragged three miles, and that Byrd's head,
right arm and shoulder were shorn from his body during the
dragging.

   Authorities also allege that Byrd, 49, was killed because he was
black and are calling the murder a hate crime.

   Three white men _ Lawrence Russell Brewer, 31, of Sulphur
Springs, and Shawn Allen Berry and John William King, both 23 and
of Jasper _ have been charged with murder and are being held in
Jasper County Jail.

   Hardy said prosecutors are ``very close'' to being able to make
a case of kidnapping against the three. That would allow murder
charges to be upgraded to capital murder charges.

   It is possible capital murder charges will be filed against only
two of the suspects. Berry may be offered a plea bargain
arrangement in exchange for testimony against the other two men,
Hardy said.

   Jasper County District Attorney Guy James Gray said he is not
ready to say whether a plea bargain will be offered, but he said
the office is keeping the option open.

   ``We're sure considering working something out so we can use
that testimony to prosecute the other two,'' Gray said.

   Hardy said the office has considered how the tactic might be
received in Jasper's black community. Some in Jasper's black
community have said they would not look favorably on such an
arrangement.

   ``We're looking at who played a major part in this,'' Hardy
said. ``We have one person who has come forward and shown some
remorse. We have two who have said nothing, and they don't have to
say anything under the law. We'll have to do what it takes to make
sure everyone is punished.''

   An interim attorney may be appointed for Berry within the next
few days to facilitate such an agreement, the District Attorney's
office suggested.

   It may take a while longer to find lawyers for the other two
suspects, Gray said. If charges in the murder case are upgraded to
capital offenses, the appointed lead attorneys must be certified to
handle capital cases, Gray said. A committee set up by a judge will
pick those attorneys from a special list, he said.

   Jasper County Sheriff Billy Rowles said Thursday during a press
conference the FBI will lead the ongoing investigation into the
Byrd slaying. The task force includes at least two Texas Rangers,
10 federal agents, two men from the drug task force and two men
from the sheriff's department, Rowles said.

   ``As you know in a case of this magnitude there's a lot of
legwork that has to be done,'' Rowles said.'' I feel we need to
start getting our office back to working the normal calls in Jasper
County.''

   Several search warrants have been issued to take blood evidence
from the suspects, Rowles said. Federal agents and the U.S.
Attorney's Office are continuing to examine the possibility that
federal charges may be filed under the hate crime statues,
authorities said.

   Rowles said Thursday's press conference will be the last
scheduled conference his office will call. Jasper needs to begin
the healing process, he said.

   ``We're no different than any other community,'' Rowles said. We
have a scar. ...We want to go forward now and the community wants
to go forward.''

   -Mitch Mitchell is a reporter with the Lufkin Daily News

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '



',
			paragraphs: '
   DA to prepare captial case in Jasper killing

   By MITCH MITCHELL

   Cox News Service

   JASPER, Texas _ Officials at the District Attorney's office here
said Thursday they are preparing to present a capital murder case
to the grand jury in the James Byrd Jr. slaying.

   ``That will happen,'' Jasper County First Assistant District
Attorney Pat Hardy said. ``We'll probably wait until the next grand
jury meets in July.''

   Byrd's torso was located Sunday near Huff Creek Cemetery about
five miles east of Jasper. Authorities allege he was chained to the
rear of a truck then dragged three miles, and that Byrd's head,
right arm and shoulder were shorn from his body during the
dragging.

   Authorities also allege that Byrd, 49, was killed because he was
black and are calling the murder a hate crime.

   Three white men _ Lawrence Russell Brewer, 31, of Sulphur
Springs, and Shawn Allen Berry and John William King, both 23 and
of Jasper _ have been charged with murder and are being held in
Jasper County Jail.

   Hardy said prosecutors are ``very close'' to being able to make
a case of kidnapping against the three. That would allow murder
charges to be upgraded to capital murder charges.

   It is possible capital murder charges will be filed against only
two of the suspects. Berry may be offered a plea bargain
arrangement in exchange for testimony against the other two men,
Hardy said.

   Jasper County District Attorney Guy James Gray said he is not
ready to say whether a plea bargain will be offered, but he said
the office is keeping the option open.

   ``We're sure considering working something out so we can use
that testimony to prosecute the other two,'' Gray said.

   Hardy said the office has considered how the tactic might be
received in Jasper's black community. Some in Jasper's black
community have said they would not look favorably on such an
arrangement.

   ``We're looking at who played a major part in this,'' Hardy
said. ``We have one person who has come forward and shown some
remorse. We have two who have said nothing, and they don't have to
say anything under the law. We'll have to do what it takes to make
sure everyone is punished.''

   An interim attorney may be appointed for Berry within the next
few days to facilitate such an agreement, the District Attorney's
office suggested.

   It may take a while longer to find lawyers for the other two
suspects, Gray said. If charges in the murder case are upgraded to
capital offenses, the appointed lead attorneys must be certified to
handle capital cases, Gray said. A committee set up by a judge will
pick those attorneys from a special list, he said.

   Jasper County Sheriff Billy Rowles said Thursday during a press
conference the FBI will lead the ongoing investigation into the
Byrd slaying. The task force includes at least two Texas Rangers,
10 federal agents, two men from the drug task force and two men
from the sheriff's department, Rowles said.

   ``As you know in a case of this magnitude there's a lot of
legwork that has to be done,'' Rowles said.'' I feel we need to
start getting our office back to working the normal calls in Jasper
County.''

   Several search warrants have been issued to take blood evidence
from the suspects, Rowles said. Federal agents and the U.S.
Attorney's Office are continuing to examine the possibility that
federal charges may be filed under the hate crime statues,
authorities said.

   Rowles said Thursday's press conference will be the last
scheduled conference his office will call. Jasper needs to begin
the healing process, he said.

   ``We're no different than any other community,'' Rowles said. We
have a scar. ...We want to go forward now and the community wants
to go forward.''

   -Mitch Mitchell is a reporter with the Lufkin Daily News

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0346 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:13 ',
			header: '
A5487 &Cx1f; taf-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MEDICAL-TESTS-RULES-N     06-11 0548
',
			slug: ' BC-MEDICAL-TESTS-RULES-NYT ',
			headline: '
MONITORING OF DRUG TESTS FAULTED 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Federal investigators told a congressional panel
Thursday that the system for policing tests of new drugs and
medical devices needed changes to protect the interests of patients
participating in such experiments.

   In a series of reports made public at a hearing before a
congressional subcommittee, the inspector general of the Department
of Health and Human Services described how crushing workloads had
overwhelmed local review boards that oversee clinical trials and
left them unable to insure that patients were not exposed to unsafe
practices.

   ``This is the time for the reform of this system, and we would
urge action to be taken as soon as possible,'' George Grob, a
deputy inspector general told the panel. The system ``is brittle,
strained and I think even cracked. We certainly need a better
one.''

   Drafts of the reports have circulated recently. But the hearing
Thursday, before the human resources subcommittee of the House
Committee on government Reform and Oversight, was the first public
discussion between government officials and scientists of the final
findings.

   The reports reflect dramatic changes in scientific research.
Once the domain of federally funded university laboratories largely
working alone, medical testing has exploded in amount and
complexity in recent years. Today, commercial sponsors, like drug
companies, finance a growing share of studies, often at multiple
sites.

   A result has been more studies of greater complexity that must
be approved by local ethics committees, known as institutional
review boards.

   These boards, required by federal regulations since 1974, were
historically tied to medical schools and universities. But their
number has grown and now includes independent and for-profit
boards.

   In the reports, the inspector general recommended several
actions for the near-term. They include improving the education of
clinical investigators and members of review boards, increasing the
boards' accountability and ability to decide which studies merit
closer scrutiny, and changing the federal oversight process so that
agencies specifically examine how well the boards are protecting
human test subjects.

   The reports also recommend giving the review boards greater
responsibility in verifying information provided by clinical
investigators.

   But witnesses repeatedly stressed that the review and oversight
system for clinical testing did not have the resources needed to
strengthen protections. For example, one of the two federal groups
charged with oversight of research risks in testing has one
full-time investigator to review potential problems in clinical
trials on humans.

   The chairman of the subcommittee, Rep. Christopher Shays,
R-Conn., called that ``pathetic.''

   Some witnesses said more bureaucratic duties and criticism were
making it increasingly difficult to find people to work on the
review boards, which are voluntary.

   ``It used to be easy to recruit the best and the brightest in an
institution'' said Robert Levine, a professor of medicine at Yale
University School of Medicine. ``Now, it is not.''
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: Conn.)  (af)  
 By KURT EICHENWALD   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Federal investigators told a congressional panel
Thursday that the system for policing tests of new drugs and
medical devices needed changes to protect the interests of patients
participating in such experiments.

   In a series of reports made public at a hearing before a
congressional subcommittee, the inspector general of the Department
of Health and Human Services described how crushing workloads had
overwhelmed local review boards that oversee clinical trials and
left them unable to insure that patients were not exposed to unsafe
practices.

   ``This is the time for the reform of this system, and we would
urge action to be taken as soon as possible,'' George Grob, a
deputy inspector general told the panel. The system ``is brittle,
strained and I think even cracked. We certainly need a better
one.''

   Drafts of the reports have circulated recently. But the hearing
Thursday, before the human resources subcommittee of the House
Committee on government Reform and Oversight, was the first public
discussion between government officials and scientists of the final
findings.

   The reports reflect dramatic changes in scientific research.
Once the domain of federally funded university laboratories largely
working alone, medical testing has exploded in amount and
complexity in recent years. Today, commercial sponsors, like drug
companies, finance a growing share of studies, often at multiple
sites.

   A result has been more studies of greater complexity that must
be approved by local ethics committees, known as institutional
review boards.

   These boards, required by federal regulations since 1974, were
historically tied to medical schools and universities. But their
number has grown and now includes independent and for-profit
boards.

   In the reports, the inspector general recommended several
actions for the near-term. They include improving the education of
clinical investigators and members of review boards, increasing the
boards' accountability and ability to decide which studies merit
closer scrutiny, and changing the federal oversight process so that
agencies specifically examine how well the boards are protecting
human test subjects.

   The reports also recommend giving the review boards greater
responsibility in verifying information provided by clinical
investigators.

   But witnesses repeatedly stressed that the review and oversight
system for clinical testing did not have the resources needed to
strengthen protections. For example, one of the two federal groups
charged with oversight of research risks in testing has one
full-time investigator to review potential problems in clinical
trials on humans.

   The chairman of the subcommittee, Rep. Christopher Shays,
R-Conn., called that ``pathetic.''

   Some witnesses said more bureaucratic duties and criticism were
making it increasingly difficult to find people to work on the
review boards, which are voluntary.

   ``It used to be easy to recruit the best and the brightest in an
institution'' said Robert Levine, a professor of medicine at Yale
University School of Medicine. ``Now, it is not.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0347 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:19 ',
			header: '
A5490 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EMPLOYEE-STOCK-615&AMP;AD     06-11 1128
',
			slug: ' BC-EMPLOYEE-STOCK-615&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
ACCOUNTING BOARD BACKS RULE ON EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS 
',
			trailer: '
   Three years after accounting rule makers shied away from a plan
that would have made it more costly to issue stock options, a
popular executive perk, they have given preliminary approval to a
proposal that could make it harder for companies to sell discounted
stock to the rank and file.

   Fewer than 20 percent of all companies have stock-purchase
programs for their employees, recent estimates suggest. And only
about half of those companies have the more generous plans that are
growing in popularity but would most likely be shaved back if the
proposal is finally approved.

   Under the plan, tentatively approved by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board in April and only now beginning to draw criticism,
companies that give employees more than a 15 percent discount on
stock would be required to treat the discount as an expense, an
amount that would come straight off the company's bottom line. To
avoid that new expense, many companies would likely limit the
discount to 15 percent.

   Many companies, including The New York Times Co., allow
employees to buy stock under plans that result in a discount that
is effectively greater than 15 percent. To get that higher
discount, the companies apply the 15 percent discount to the lower
of the stock prices at the beginning and the end of a certain
period.

   At companies with rising stock prices, employees get more _
sometimes much more _ than a 15 percent discount off the price the
stock would fetch the day of their purchase. That steep discount,
said the board, turned the plans into a lucrative fringe benefit
that should reduce companies' income just as salaries and
health-insurance premiums now do.

   ``We are not opposed to a good deal for employees,'' said
Timothy Lucas, the board's research director, ``but we think it
should be accounted for.''

   The proposal is drawing controversy because the board, under
pressure from corporate executives, backed away from a similar
proposal in 1994 that would have most likely forced companies to
ration the number of stock options they hand out, mostly to
executives and managers.

   A stock option essentially gives someone the right to buy a
share of stock at a guaranteed price for a period often lasting as
long as 10 years.

   Companies now give stock options worth tens of millions of
dollars to top executives, while tossing a bone to _ or overlooking
entirely _ lower-ranking employees. Now the board has proposed
rules that would deal a harsh blow to stock-purchase plans, which
under federal law must be made available to all employees, if they
are offered at all.

   ``This will hurt an employer's ability to give discounts to the
rank and file,'' said Andrew Oringer, a lawyer who specializes in
employee benefits at Rogers &AMP; Wells, a New York law firm. ``I would
think people would find that objectionable.''

   One reason companies might have to revisit the plans is that the
tax code encouraged companies to be generous. Under section 423 of
the Internal Revenue Code, companies understood they had to limit
the stock-price discount to 15 percent, but also that they had the
leeway to apply the discount to the lower of the price at the
beginning or the price at the end of a certain period.

   Sandra Sussman, executive director of the National Association
of Stock Plan Professionals in Concord, Calif., said the proposed
accounting rules ``will end `423' plans as we know them.''

   She said many companies appear worried that fewer employees
would participate in the stock-purchase plans if the allowable
discount dropped to 15 percent. Companies that have the more
generous plans tend to be high-tech companies in Silicon Valley,
she said.

   At the same session in April where it voted to change the rules
on steeply discounted stock, the accounting board also moved to
close another loophole in the way companies handle compensation
issues. It gave preliminary approval to a new rule that would
require companies to record as an expense any options it gives
outside directors, on the day they are given.

   Under current rules, most companies treat directors as
employees, to avoid having to take the charge.

   The board will release a draft of both proposed rules later this
year, Lucas said. Companies will then have at least 90 days to
comment, and final approval is not expected until late 1999. Lucas
said that he did not believe the rules would be retroactive.

   Precise information on how many companies might have to modify
their employee stock plans if the rules change is hard to come by.
But compensation experts said that discounted stock plans were
growing in popularity as companies tried to expand stock-ownership
programs to lower-level employees.

   A recent review of 655 large and medium-sized companies by
William M. Mercer, a New York consulting firm, found that only
about 16 percent had a stock-purchase program for employees. The
consultants did not look at whether those plans allow employees to
get more than a 15 percent discount.

   But another recent survey by Hewitt Associates, a consulting
firm in Lincolnshire, Ill., found that about half of the companies
with stock-purchase plans allow employees to apply the discount to
the lower of the price at the beginning and the price at the end of
the purchase period.

   In the early 1990s, the accounting board proposed rules that
would require companies to record the value of stock options as an
expense. That proposal changed rules that had allowed companies to
say that those options had no value, even though they are often
worth tens of millions of dollars to the executives by the time
they are exercised.

   But the board _ a privately financed group in Norwalk, Conn.,
that has the Securities &AMP; Exchange Commission's blessing to set the
accounting standards for all public companies _ backed down after
many companies complained, asking merely that companies put the
relevant information in the footnotes to their financial
statements.

   Corporate executives had argued that requiring companies to
deduct the value of the options from earnings would wipe out the
profits of small and growing companies. The companies had even
persuaded the U.S. Senate to pass a nonbinding resolution to oppose
the accounting rule, and convinced some legislators to pursue
legislation that would have stripped the private board of much of
its power.

   This time, it remains unclear whether companies will go to the
mat just as fiercely on behalf of the rank and file.
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: Calif., Conn.)  (lb) 
 By MELODY PETERSEN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   Three years after accounting rule makers shied away from a plan
that would have made it more costly to issue stock options, a
popular executive perk, they have given preliminary approval to a
proposal that could make it harder for companies to sell discounted
stock to the rank and file.

   Fewer than 20 percent of all companies have stock-purchase
programs for their employees, recent estimates suggest. And only
about half of those companies have the more generous plans that are
growing in popularity but would most likely be shaved back if the
proposal is finally approved.

   Under the plan, tentatively approved by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board in April and only now beginning to draw criticism,
companies that give employees more than a 15 percent discount on
stock would be required to treat the discount as an expense, an
amount that would come straight off the company's bottom line. To
avoid that new expense, many companies would likely limit the
discount to 15 percent.

   Many companies, including The New York Times Co., allow
employees to buy stock under plans that result in a discount that
is effectively greater than 15 percent. To get that higher
discount, the companies apply the 15 percent discount to the lower
of the stock prices at the beginning and the end of a certain
period.

   At companies with rising stock prices, employees get more _
sometimes much more _ than a 15 percent discount off the price the
stock would fetch the day of their purchase. That steep discount,
said the board, turned the plans into a lucrative fringe benefit
that should reduce companies' income just as salaries and
health-insurance premiums now do.

   ``We are not opposed to a good deal for employees,'' said
Timothy Lucas, the board's research director, ``but we think it
should be accounted for.''

   The proposal is drawing controversy because the board, under
pressure from corporate executives, backed away from a similar
proposal in 1994 that would have most likely forced companies to
ration the number of stock options they hand out, mostly to
executives and managers.

   A stock option essentially gives someone the right to buy a
share of stock at a guaranteed price for a period often lasting as
long as 10 years.

   Companies now give stock options worth tens of millions of
dollars to top executives, while tossing a bone to _ or overlooking
entirely _ lower-ranking employees. Now the board has proposed
rules that would deal a harsh blow to stock-purchase plans, which
under federal law must be made available to all employees, if they
are offered at all.

   ``This will hurt an employer's ability to give discounts to the
rank and file,'' said Andrew Oringer, a lawyer who specializes in
employee benefits at Rogers &AMP; Wells, a New York law firm. ``I would
think people would find that objectionable.''

   One reason companies might have to revisit the plans is that the
tax code encouraged companies to be generous. Under section 423 of
the Internal Revenue Code, companies understood they had to limit
the stock-price discount to 15 percent, but also that they had the
leeway to apply the discount to the lower of the price at the
beginning or the price at the end of a certain period.

   Sandra Sussman, executive director of the National Association
of Stock Plan Professionals in Concord, Calif., said the proposed
accounting rules ``will end `423' plans as we know them.''

   She said many companies appear worried that fewer employees
would participate in the stock-purchase plans if the allowable
discount dropped to 15 percent. Companies that have the more
generous plans tend to be high-tech companies in Silicon Valley,
she said.

   At the same session in April where it voted to change the rules
on steeply discounted stock, the accounting board also moved to
close another loophole in the way companies handle compensation
issues. It gave preliminary approval to a new rule that would
require companies to record as an expense any options it gives
outside directors, on the day they are given.

   Under current rules, most companies treat directors as
employees, to avoid having to take the charge.

   The board will release a draft of both proposed rules later this
year, Lucas said. Companies will then have at least 90 days to
comment, and final approval is not expected until late 1999. Lucas
said that he did not believe the rules would be retroactive.

   Precise information on how many companies might have to modify
their employee stock plans if the rules change is hard to come by.
But compensation experts said that discounted stock plans were
growing in popularity as companies tried to expand stock-ownership
programs to lower-level employees.

   A recent review of 655 large and medium-sized companies by
William M. Mercer, a New York consulting firm, found that only
about 16 percent had a stock-purchase program for employees. The
consultants did not look at whether those plans allow employees to
get more than a 15 percent discount.

   But another recent survey by Hewitt Associates, a consulting
firm in Lincolnshire, Ill., found that about half of the companies
with stock-purchase plans allow employees to apply the discount to
the lower of the price at the beginning and the price at the end of
the purchase period.

   In the early 1990s, the accounting board proposed rules that
would require companies to record the value of stock options as an
expense. That proposal changed rules that had allowed companies to
say that those options had no value, even though they are often
worth tens of millions of dollars to the executives by the time
they are exercised.

   But the board _ a privately financed group in Norwalk, Conn.,
that has the Securities &AMP; Exchange Commission's blessing to set the
accounting standards for all public companies _ backed down after
many companies complained, asking merely that companies put the
relevant information in the footnotes to their financial
statements.

   Corporate executives had argued that requiring companies to
deduct the value of the options from earnings would wipe out the
profits of small and growing companies. The companies had even
persuaded the U.S. Senate to pass a nonbinding resolution to oppose
the accounting rule, and convinced some legislators to pursue
legislation that would have stripped the private board of much of
its power.

   This time, it remains unclear whether companies will go to the
mat just as fiercely on behalf of the rank and file.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0348 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:19 ',
			header: '
A5491 &Cx1f; ttx-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GOP-TEXAS-TEX     06-11 0827
',
			slug: ' BC-GOP-TEXAS-TEX ',
			headline: '
TEXAS GOP CONVENTION READY TO OPEN WITH UNCHARACTERISTIC HARMONY
',
			trailer: '
   FORT WORTH, Texas _ As many as 16,000 people are expected to
converge on downtown Cowtown on Friday for the formal kickoff of
the Texas Republican Convention in what party officials hope will
be more a display of unity than a family feud.

   ``I feel really good. I think the people are ready to close
ranks. I think they're ready to move forward,'' state Republican
Chairman Susan Weddington said on Thursday as delegates and others
attended preliminary events.

   ``I am just even more encouraged that we will come out of this
convention with the momentum we need to just sweep the statewide
(races), the Texas House, and make huge gains at the county
level,'' Weddington said.

   The anticipated crowd includes more than 13,000 delegates and
alternates who will convene at 1 p.m. CDT at the Fort Worth
Convention Center. The biennial event closes Saturday afternoon.

   Friday's keynote speaker is Gov. George W. Bush, who is not only
the runaway favorite to win re-election over Democrat Garry Mauro,
but is also the unofficial front-runner in the Republican
presidential sweepstakes for 2000.

   So far, unity has prevailed over divisiveness during preliminary
platform committee deliberations, which are traditionally beset by
infighting.

   GOP platform committee members rejected proposals Thursday to
allow only registered Republicans to vote in GOP primaries and to
allow convention delegates to pick judicial candidates, ideas
pushed by some of the party's social conservatives as a way to
purify the ticket. Both proposals would require changes in the
state election code. Texans do not now declare a party affiliation
for voting purposes.

   Bush and other party leaders advocate keeping the primary
process open to as many voters as possible and declined to endorse
the proposals.

   Neither proposal was widely discussed by platform writers, said
Michael Williams, chairman of the party's platform committee.

   Bush and other party leaders, who are almost euphoric at the
possibility of becoming the state's majority party by sweeping
statewide offices, are working hard to present the GOP's best
possible face to the public this week.

   ``I think the more people that are involved in Republican
primaries the better,'' said state Sen. Jane Nelson, chairwoman of
the convention. ``For all those people who are anxious to vote in
our primary, we need to make it possible.'' &QL; 

   The continued efforts by social conservatives to change how the
party operates _ in defiance of the party's moderates and elected
officials _ reflect tensions inside the state GOP, some analysts
say.

   The proposals to change the primary system and selection of
judicial candidates came the day after a proposal to deny campaign
funds and party support to candidates who will not support a ban on
certain late-term abortions.

   ``There already is tension in the Republican Party over a
variety of issues and I think this just adds to that tension,''
said Anthony Champagne, a professor of government and politics at
the University of Texas at Dallas.

   ``It may well cause an unintended consequence. It will cause a
backlash'' by voters against the Republican Party, he said.

   Closing the primary and changing judicial candidate selection
were suggested by Tim Lambert, a Republican National Committee
member from Texas.

   Under the proposal to close the party's primary, voters would be
required to declare party affiliation when registering to vote.
That information would be printed on the voter registration card
that is presented at the polls.

   The idea reflects some Republicans' concern that as the party
grows in size and power, individuals who have traditionally voted
Democratic are voting in the Republican primary.

   ``I think Democrats ought to nominate Democrats and Republicans
ought to nominate Republicans,'' Lambert said. ``Then everybody has
a choice in the general election.''

   The same would be true of the idea of letting convention
delegates select judicial candidates. The final selection for
judges would be made in the general election, but the candidates
would be chosen by the party faithful.

   Supporters said that allowing convention delegates to pick
judicial candidates would reduce the cost of the races.

   Champagne, who has written books on judicial selection in Texas,
was particularly critical of the proposal to change the ways judges
are nominated.

   ``It seems to me that it runs contrary to the Texas tradition,
which is kind of pro-election, pro-voter-choice sort of system. We
elect practically every office under the sun, and that is a strong
Texas tradition.''

   (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide
Web: www.star-telegram.com)
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By MAX B. BAKER 
c.1997 Fort Worth Star-Telegram 

',
			paragraphs: '
   FORT WORTH, Texas _ As many as 16,000 people are expected to
converge on downtown Cowtown on Friday for the formal kickoff of
the Texas Republican Convention in what party officials hope will
be more a display of unity than a family feud.

   ``I feel really good. I think the people are ready to close
ranks. I think they're ready to move forward,'' state Republican
Chairman Susan Weddington said on Thursday as delegates and others
attended preliminary events.

   ``I am just even more encouraged that we will come out of this
convention with the momentum we need to just sweep the statewide
(races), the Texas House, and make huge gains at the county
level,'' Weddington said.

   The anticipated crowd includes more than 13,000 delegates and
alternates who will convene at 1 p.m. CDT at the Fort Worth
Convention Center. The biennial event closes Saturday afternoon.

   Friday's keynote speaker is Gov. George W. Bush, who is not only
the runaway favorite to win re-election over Democrat Garry Mauro,
but is also the unofficial front-runner in the Republican
presidential sweepstakes for 2000.

   So far, unity has prevailed over divisiveness during preliminary
platform committee deliberations, which are traditionally beset by
infighting.

   GOP platform committee members rejected proposals Thursday to
allow only registered Republicans to vote in GOP primaries and to
allow convention delegates to pick judicial candidates, ideas
pushed by some of the party's social conservatives as a way to
purify the ticket. Both proposals would require changes in the
state election code. Texans do not now declare a party affiliation
for voting purposes.

   Bush and other party leaders advocate keeping the primary
process open to as many voters as possible and declined to endorse
the proposals.

   Neither proposal was widely discussed by platform writers, said
Michael Williams, chairman of the party's platform committee.

   Bush and other party leaders, who are almost euphoric at the
possibility of becoming the state's majority party by sweeping
statewide offices, are working hard to present the GOP's best
possible face to the public this week.

   ``I think the more people that are involved in Republican
primaries the better,'' said state Sen. Jane Nelson, chairwoman of
the convention. ``For all those people who are anxious to vote in
our primary, we need to make it possible.'' &QL; 

   The continued efforts by social conservatives to change how the
party operates _ in defiance of the party's moderates and elected
officials _ reflect tensions inside the state GOP, some analysts
say.

   The proposals to change the primary system and selection of
judicial candidates came the day after a proposal to deny campaign
funds and party support to candidates who will not support a ban on
certain late-term abortions.

   ``There already is tension in the Republican Party over a
variety of issues and I think this just adds to that tension,''
said Anthony Champagne, a professor of government and politics at
the University of Texas at Dallas.

   ``It may well cause an unintended consequence. It will cause a
backlash'' by voters against the Republican Party, he said.

   Closing the primary and changing judicial candidate selection
were suggested by Tim Lambert, a Republican National Committee
member from Texas.

   Under the proposal to close the party's primary, voters would be
required to declare party affiliation when registering to vote.
That information would be printed on the voter registration card
that is presented at the polls.

   The idea reflects some Republicans' concern that as the party
grows in size and power, individuals who have traditionally voted
Democratic are voting in the Republican primary.

   ``I think Democrats ought to nominate Democrats and Republicans
ought to nominate Republicans,'' Lambert said. ``Then everybody has
a choice in the general election.''

   The same would be true of the idea of letting convention
delegates select judicial candidates. The final selection for
judges would be made in the general election, but the candidates
would be chosen by the party faithful.

   Supporters said that allowing convention delegates to pick
judicial candidates would reduce the cost of the races.

   Champagne, who has written books on judicial selection in Texas,
was particularly critical of the proposal to change the ways judges
are nominated.

   ``It seems to me that it runs contrary to the Texas tradition,
which is kind of pro-election, pro-voter-choice sort of system. We
elect practically every office under the sun, and that is a strong
Texas tradition.''

   (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide
Web: www.star-telegram.com)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0349 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:20 ',
			header: '
A5492 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NATSEMI-EARNINGS-NYT &LR;      06-11 0442
',
			slug: ' BC-NATSEMI-EARNINGS-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   SAN FRANCISCO _ After warning last month that its revenues would
fall below Wall Street's expectations, National Semiconductor Corp.
on Thursday reported a fiscal fourth-quarter loss that equaled
analysts' revised estimates. National said orders continued to
decline in the quarter, but that the rate of decrease had slowed
during May.

   The reported losses were $212.4 million for the fiscal fourth
quarter and $98.6 million for the fiscal year.

   National attributed its problems to a combination of factors,
including production difficulties at its Cyrix subsidiary, the
slowdown in personal computer sales because of high inventories at
some manufacturers and the effect of the Asian crisis on sales of
chips used in cellular telephones.

   But the company, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., has also
suffered from the shift to PCs costing less than $1,000, which hurt
sales of components for midpriced machines, and from technology
shifts in network adapters, in which it has fallen behind rival
producers.

   National shares closed at $15.375, up 25 cents, on the New York
Stock Exchange. National shares are down 64 percent from their
52-week high of $42.87.

   Although National's loss met the consensus estimate, losses
going forward could be larger, said Jonathan Joseph, an analyst
with NationsBanc Montgomery Securities. ``Revenues are not going to
pick up any time soon. Orders are down quarter-to-quarter and
year-to-year. It's difficult to accelerate when you don't have
anything in the order book.''

   For its fourth fiscal quarter, which ended May 31, National
reported a loss of $212.4 million, compared with a loss of $19
million in the period a year earlier. Sales fell 24 percent, to
$510 million, from $670.5 million in the fourth quarter of the 1997
fiscal year.

   Fourth-quarter 1998 earnings reflect a one-time pretax
restructuring charge of $63.8 million for layoffs of 1,400 workers,
and a non-tax-deductible $95.2 million expense associated with the
acquisition of Comcore Semiconductor. Excluding the one-time
charges, National had a loss of $69.3 million, equal to the
consensus estimate, according to First Call.

   For the year, National reported a loss of $98.6 million,
compared with net income of $1.6 million, or one cent a share, in
the 1997 fiscal year. Excluding one-time charges, it had a net
profit of $72.7 million, or 44 cents a share. Sales fell 5 percent,
to $2.54 billion, from $2.68 billion in the prior year. &QL;
',
			body: '

  
 NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR REPORTS $212.4 MILLION 4th-QUARTER LOSS  
 (bl)  
 By LAWRENCE M. FISHER   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   SAN FRANCISCO _ After warning last month that its revenues would
fall below Wall Street's expectations, National Semiconductor Corp.
on Thursday reported a fiscal fourth-quarter loss that equaled
analysts' revised estimates. National said orders continued to
decline in the quarter, but that the rate of decrease had slowed
during May.

   The reported losses were $212.4 million for the fiscal fourth
quarter and $98.6 million for the fiscal year.

   National attributed its problems to a combination of factors,
including production difficulties at its Cyrix subsidiary, the
slowdown in personal computer sales because of high inventories at
some manufacturers and the effect of the Asian crisis on sales of
chips used in cellular telephones.

   But the company, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., has also
suffered from the shift to PCs costing less than $1,000, which hurt
sales of components for midpriced machines, and from technology
shifts in network adapters, in which it has fallen behind rival
producers.

   National shares closed at $15.375, up 25 cents, on the New York
Stock Exchange. National shares are down 64 percent from their
52-week high of $42.87.

   Although National's loss met the consensus estimate, losses
going forward could be larger, said Jonathan Joseph, an analyst
with NationsBanc Montgomery Securities. ``Revenues are not going to
pick up any time soon. Orders are down quarter-to-quarter and
year-to-year. It's difficult to accelerate when you don't have
anything in the order book.''

   For its fourth fiscal quarter, which ended May 31, National
reported a loss of $212.4 million, compared with a loss of $19
million in the period a year earlier. Sales fell 24 percent, to
$510 million, from $670.5 million in the fourth quarter of the 1997
fiscal year.

   Fourth-quarter 1998 earnings reflect a one-time pretax
restructuring charge of $63.8 million for layoffs of 1,400 workers,
and a non-tax-deductible $95.2 million expense associated with the
acquisition of Comcore Semiconductor. Excluding the one-time
charges, National had a loss of $69.3 million, equal to the
consensus estimate, according to First Call.

   For the year, National reported a loss of $98.6 million,
compared with net income of $1.6 million, or one cent a share, in
the 1997 fiscal year. Excluding one-time charges, it had a net
profit of $72.7 million, or 44 cents a share. Sales fell 5 percent,
to $2.54 billion, from $2.68 billion in the prior year. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0350 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:23 ',
			header: '
A5494 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CENSUS-SUIT-NYT &LR;      06-11 0502
',
			slug: ' BC-CENSUS-SUIT-NYT ',
			headline: '
DISPUTE OVER CENSUS TAKING METHODS GOES TO COURT 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ The dispute over whether the Census Bureau will
statistically sample neighborhoods and estimate the population in
2000 moved on Thursday from the House of Representatives to the
federal courts, where arguments in this dispute over numbers
centered on the definition of words.

   Appearing before a special panel here of two federal district
judges and one federal appeals judge, lawyers for the Clinton
administration, a group of states and cities, civil rights groups
and House Democrats sparred with a lawyer for Speaker Newt Gingrich
over whether the Census Bureau's plans to estimate the country's
population would violate the Constitution and whether the method
was prohibited by an act of Congress.

   The sampling method entails sending census takers to a portion
of those households that do not return the census forms. The Census
Bureau would use data from that sample to help determine the size
and characteristics of the households that do not fill out the
form, and then estimate the national population.

   Every decade, the Census Bureau has sent census takers again and
again to every home that did not return the forms. That is
enormously expensive and, the Census Bureau says, resulted in 1990
in a large number of errors as census takers resorted to
questioning neighbors and merchants and even guessing when they
could not find anybody at home.

   There were hints Thursday that the judges might base their
ruling on what the drafters of the Constitution meant by the word
``enumeration.''

   ``Does it mean counting people or does it mean determining the
population?'' asked Judge Douglas H. Ginsburg, who is on the panel.

   To Gingrich's lawyer, the definition is very clear. ``It means
counting, one-by-one,'' the lawyer, Maureen Mahoney, told the
court.

   But the Clinton administration noted that the same article of
the Constitution that calls for enumeration says it should be
conducted ``in such a manner'' as Congress shall direct. Why, the
administration argued, would the framers allow Congress to
determine the method of taking the census if it was mandating that
only one means be used?

   The lawsuit is the latest skirmish in the partisan wrangling
over the 2000 census. The Census Bureau says sampling is needed to
make sure there is no repeat of the 1990 census, which studies said
missed more people than the head count that preceded it.

   About 80 percent of those missed were members of minority
groups, mainly living in legislative districts that are
overwhelmingly Democratic. Republican strategists say privately
that counting those who were missed would help Democrats when
legislative districts are drawn.

   Many cites have joined in the suit because census data are used
to distribute federal and state money. An undercount of minority
group members. deprives the cities of money.
',
			body: '


   (af)  
 By STEVEN A. HOLMES   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ The dispute over whether the Census Bureau will
statistically sample neighborhoods and estimate the population in
2000 moved on Thursday from the House of Representatives to the
federal courts, where arguments in this dispute over numbers
centered on the definition of words.

   Appearing before a special panel here of two federal district
judges and one federal appeals judge, lawyers for the Clinton
administration, a group of states and cities, civil rights groups
and House Democrats sparred with a lawyer for Speaker Newt Gingrich
over whether the Census Bureau's plans to estimate the country's
population would violate the Constitution and whether the method
was prohibited by an act of Congress.

   The sampling method entails sending census takers to a portion
of those households that do not return the census forms. The Census
Bureau would use data from that sample to help determine the size
and characteristics of the households that do not fill out the
form, and then estimate the national population.

   Every decade, the Census Bureau has sent census takers again and
again to every home that did not return the forms. That is
enormously expensive and, the Census Bureau says, resulted in 1990
in a large number of errors as census takers resorted to
questioning neighbors and merchants and even guessing when they
could not find anybody at home.

   There were hints Thursday that the judges might base their
ruling on what the drafters of the Constitution meant by the word
``enumeration.''

   ``Does it mean counting people or does it mean determining the
population?'' asked Judge Douglas H. Ginsburg, who is on the panel.

   To Gingrich's lawyer, the definition is very clear. ``It means
counting, one-by-one,'' the lawyer, Maureen Mahoney, told the
court.

   But the Clinton administration noted that the same article of
the Constitution that calls for enumeration says it should be
conducted ``in such a manner'' as Congress shall direct. Why, the
administration argued, would the framers allow Congress to
determine the method of taking the census if it was mandating that
only one means be used?

   The lawsuit is the latest skirmish in the partisan wrangling
over the 2000 census. The Census Bureau says sampling is needed to
make sure there is no repeat of the 1990 census, which studies said
missed more people than the head count that preceded it.

   About 80 percent of those missed were members of minority
groups, mainly living in legislative districts that are
overwhelmingly Democratic. Republican strategists say privately
that counting those who were missed would help Democrats when
legislative districts are drawn.

   Many cites have joined in the suit because census data are used
to distribute federal and state money. An undercount of minority
group members. deprives the cities of money.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0351 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:23 ',
			header: '
A5495 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NYC-BUSINESS-BRIEF-NY     06-11 0167
',
			slug: ' BC-NYC-BUSINESS-BRIEF-NYT ',
			headline: '
NEW OFFICE FOR PUBLISHER 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ The Miller Sports Group, publisher of several sports
and leisure magazines, is consolidating its business operations,
now at 1120 Avenue of the Americas in Manhattan, and its editorial
offices, in Trumbull, Conn., in 21,000 square feet of space at 810
Seventh Ave. in Manhattan.

   ``Following its acquisition of four magazine titles from The New
York Times Co. late last year, Miller Sports Group needed more
space,'' said Joseph Simone, president of Tishman Real Estate
Services, which acted as the broker for Miller Sports Group, a unit
of Miller Publishing Group of Los Angeles. The building's owner is
Tower Realty Trust.

   The move, Simone said, will allow the company to provide
adequate space for the editorial group. Miller Sports Group
publishes four consumer magazines, Mountain Sports and Living
(formerly Snow Country), Tennis, Sailing World and Cruising World.
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ The Miller Sports Group, publisher of several sports
and leisure magazines, is consolidating its business operations,
now at 1120 Avenue of the Americas in Manhattan, and its editorial
offices, in Trumbull, Conn., in 21,000 square feet of space at 810
Seventh Ave. in Manhattan.

   ``Following its acquisition of four magazine titles from The New
York Times Co. late last year, Miller Sports Group needed more
space,'' said Joseph Simone, president of Tishman Real Estate
Services, which acted as the broker for Miller Sports Group, a unit
of Miller Publishing Group of Los Angeles. The building's owner is
Tower Realty Trust.

   The move, Simone said, will allow the company to provide
adequate space for the editorial group. Miller Sports Group
publishes four consumer magazines, Mountain Sports and Living
(formerly Snow Country), Tennis, Sailing World and Cruising World.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0352 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:24 ',
			header: '
A5496 &Cx1f; tad-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GM12-COX     06-11 0887
',
			slug: ' BC-GM12-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   DAYTON, Ohio -- General Motors Corp. moved a step closer to
complete paralysis of its North American operations Thursday night
when United Auto Workers struck a second key GM plant in Flint,
Mich.

   The strike at GM's Delphi East plant, which supplies spark
plugs, air filters, instrument panels and other parts for almost
all GM cars and trucks, came as the initial walkout by UAW Local
659 at the Flint Metal Center entered its seventh day. The walkout
is the eighth at a GM plant in the United States since early 1997.

   The combined strikes are a one-two punch that analysts say will
cripple the world's largest automaker and shut most of its
operations within days, including two troubled brake plants in
Dayton.

   A 17-day strike at those brake plants in 1996 closed all 29 of
GM's North American plants, idled 178,000 workers and cost the
company about $900 million.

   History may repeat itself. More than 25,000 GM workers in North
America and Mexico already have been idled by the Flint Metal
Center strike, which has forced the shutdown of more than two dozen
assembly and parts factories.

   Hours before the second strike at the Delphi East plant, which
employs 5,000 members of UAW Local 651, a disputed number of
workers at GM's air bag plant in Vandalia were laid off, two days
after the plant's union voted 2-to-1 in favor of a new 10-year
contract.

   GM says 81 workers at the air bag plant were told not to report
to work today, while one official with the United Steelworkers of
America Local 87 said as many as half of the plant's 657 workers
were or will be told not to report to work.

   ``Next week, it could be the entire plant,'' said the union
official, who asked that his name not be printed.

   Officials with USWA Local 87 said they support the UAW walkouts.
About 4,000 local GM workers have been idled as a result of the
Flint Metal Center strike.

   Meanwhile, the Ohio Bureau of Employment Services will grant
unemployment benefits to GM workers at the Moraine truck assembly
plant, one of the first victims of the initial strike.

   About 4,200 salaried members of the International Union of
Electronics Workers Local 801 will be eligible for up to 95 percent
of their take-home pay if the plant remains shut down into next
week.

   The first checks could be mailed in about two weeks, said David
Garick, an OBES spokesman.

   Garick said the state's decision is a ``good barometer'' for
other unions at other local plants, including members of IUE Local
755, which represents about 2,600 workers at the Delphi suspension
components plant in Kettering, and the USWA Local 87, which
represents workers at three local Delphi plants, including 657 at
the Vandalia air bag plant.

   However, members of the UAW Local 696, which represents about
3,400 workers at Dayton Delphi brake plants on Needmore Road and
Wisconsin Boulevard, probably would not be eligible because they're
members of the same union that called the strikes in Flint. At the
very least, the state would conduct a hearing, a process that takes
about 30 days, Garick said.

   The state denies unemployment benefits to workers if they
benefit from or are directly supporting a strike that results in a
shutdown of their plant.

   The local UAW is scheduled to bus 200 workers to the picket
lines in Flint on Wednesday.

   ``That certainly would be an indication there's a connection
with the labor dispute,'' Garick noted.

   At the Flint Metal Center, union leaders said GM reneged on some
of the $300 million in investment planned for the their plant. They
also object to what they say are GM's plans to cut 191 jobs.

   GM maintains the union has not cooperated with changes to make
the plant more competitive. The company insists it has made a
significant portion of the planned investments, though officials
will not say how much.

   Union leaders at the Delphi East plant say the issue is moving
jobs to low-wage countries such as Mexico, where GM pays workers
about $1 an hour. UAW workers make as much as $44 an hour,
including wages and benefits.

   GM says it is forced to move some operations out of the United
States to remain competitive.

   UAW Vice President Richard Shoemaker blasted GM executives
Thursday, saying that the company has enjoyed record profits of
$27.5 billion over the last five years.

   ``That looks pretty competitive to me,'' Shoemaker said.

   The ripple effect from the first UAW strike already has hobbled
non-GM businesses. Dayton-based Jet Express, which normally makes
300 runs a week to GM plants, may see its business dwindle to under
100 runs by next week, said company President Kevin Burch. The
company usually hauls 40 loads of parts a day to the Moraine truck
assembly plant, which has been idle since Tuesday.

   ``Flint's already crippled us,'' he said, noting with irony that
Jet Express has been named GM's supplier of the year for the past
three years. GM executives are scheduled to present Jet Express
employees with an award later this month.

   ``Hopefully we'll be hauling parts to the plants again,'' Burch
said.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Strike at second GM plant nearly paralysis company
 &HT;    By Mike Drummond
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   DAYTON, Ohio -- General Motors Corp. moved a step closer to
complete paralysis of its North American operations Thursday night
when United Auto Workers struck a second key GM plant in Flint,
Mich.

   The strike at GM's Delphi East plant, which supplies spark
plugs, air filters, instrument panels and other parts for almost
all GM cars and trucks, came as the initial walkout by UAW Local
659 at the Flint Metal Center entered its seventh day. The walkout
is the eighth at a GM plant in the United States since early 1997.

   The combined strikes are a one-two punch that analysts say will
cripple the world's largest automaker and shut most of its
operations within days, including two troubled brake plants in
Dayton.

   A 17-day strike at those brake plants in 1996 closed all 29 of
GM's North American plants, idled 178,000 workers and cost the
company about $900 million.

   History may repeat itself. More than 25,000 GM workers in North
America and Mexico already have been idled by the Flint Metal
Center strike, which has forced the shutdown of more than two dozen
assembly and parts factories.

   Hours before the second strike at the Delphi East plant, which
employs 5,000 members of UAW Local 651, a disputed number of
workers at GM's air bag plant in Vandalia were laid off, two days
after the plant's union voted 2-to-1 in favor of a new 10-year
contract.

   GM says 81 workers at the air bag plant were told not to report
to work today, while one official with the United Steelworkers of
America Local 87 said as many as half of the plant's 657 workers
were or will be told not to report to work.

   ``Next week, it could be the entire plant,'' said the union
official, who asked that his name not be printed.

   Officials with USWA Local 87 said they support the UAW walkouts.
About 4,000 local GM workers have been idled as a result of the
Flint Metal Center strike.

   Meanwhile, the Ohio Bureau of Employment Services will grant
unemployment benefits to GM workers at the Moraine truck assembly
plant, one of the first victims of the initial strike.

   About 4,200 salaried members of the International Union of
Electronics Workers Local 801 will be eligible for up to 95 percent
of their take-home pay if the plant remains shut down into next
week.

   The first checks could be mailed in about two weeks, said David
Garick, an OBES spokesman.

   Garick said the state's decision is a ``good barometer'' for
other unions at other local plants, including members of IUE Local
755, which represents about 2,600 workers at the Delphi suspension
components plant in Kettering, and the USWA Local 87, which
represents workers at three local Delphi plants, including 657 at
the Vandalia air bag plant.

   However, members of the UAW Local 696, which represents about
3,400 workers at Dayton Delphi brake plants on Needmore Road and
Wisconsin Boulevard, probably would not be eligible because they're
members of the same union that called the strikes in Flint. At the
very least, the state would conduct a hearing, a process that takes
about 30 days, Garick said.

   The state denies unemployment benefits to workers if they
benefit from or are directly supporting a strike that results in a
shutdown of their plant.

   The local UAW is scheduled to bus 200 workers to the picket
lines in Flint on Wednesday.

   ``That certainly would be an indication there's a connection
with the labor dispute,'' Garick noted.

   At the Flint Metal Center, union leaders said GM reneged on some
of the $300 million in investment planned for the their plant. They
also object to what they say are GM's plans to cut 191 jobs.

   GM maintains the union has not cooperated with changes to make
the plant more competitive. The company insists it has made a
significant portion of the planned investments, though officials
will not say how much.

   Union leaders at the Delphi East plant say the issue is moving
jobs to low-wage countries such as Mexico, where GM pays workers
about $1 an hour. UAW workers make as much as $44 an hour,
including wages and benefits.

   GM says it is forced to move some operations out of the United
States to remain competitive.

   UAW Vice President Richard Shoemaker blasted GM executives
Thursday, saying that the company has enjoyed record profits of
$27.5 billion over the last five years.

   ``That looks pretty competitive to me,'' Shoemaker said.

   The ripple effect from the first UAW strike already has hobbled
non-GM businesses. Dayton-based Jet Express, which normally makes
300 runs a week to GM plants, may see its business dwindle to under
100 runs by next week, said company President Kevin Burch. The
company usually hauls 40 loads of parts a day to the Moraine truck
assembly plant, which has been idle since Tuesday.

   ``Flint's already crippled us,'' he said, noting with irony that
Jet Express has been named GM's supplier of the year for the past
three years. GM executives are scheduled to present Jet Express
employees with an award later this month.

   ``Hopefully we'll be hauling parts to the plants again,'' Burch
said.

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0353 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:25 ',
			header: '
A5497 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-RAINIER-AVALANCHE-NYT     06-11 0430
',
			slug: ' BC-RAINIER-AVALANCHE-NYT ',
			headline: '
MOUNT RAINIER AVALANCHE SWEEPS AWAY A DOZEN CLIMBERS; 4 RESCUED
',
			trailer: '
   SEATTLE _ A dozen climbers nearly 12,000 feet up Mount Rainier
were swept away in an avalanche Thursday afternoon near a rock
formation called Disappointment Cleaver. Four were rescued quickly
and rescue crews were trying to reach the others.

   At around 2:30 p.m. rangers in the national park around the
mountain were notified about the accident by another climber who
was using a cellular telephone.

   ``My understanding is we have some in crevasses and some that
are hanging from ropes at this point,'' said Curt Benson, a
spokesman for the Pierce County Sheriff's Department.

   The cleaver, a large rock formation that splits the Emmons and
Ingraham glaciers, is 11,500 feet up the 14,410-foot mountain. The
disappointment in its name comes from the many people who fail to
make it to the summit because they turn around there, said Gus
Bush, operations leader for Tacoma Mountain Rescue, a volunteer
rescue group trying to reach the stranded climbers.

   Five climbers fell into a crevasse, Bush was told by the
National Park Service. Of the four rescued, two suffered only minor
bumps and two were mildly hypothermic, a National Park Service
spokeswoman, Maria Gillett, said.

   Tacoma Mountain Rescue sent 12 climbers to the park soon after
the call came in shortly after the avalanche, Bush said. They were
to be be airlifted up the mountain by an Army Chinook helicopter
from the town of Longmire, he said.

   Spring snow often turns to a slushy consistency, especially in
the afternoon, Bush said. ``The heat today and the sun coming down
on it, probably triggered it,'' he said, of the avalanche.
Temperatures have recently risen into the upper 70s and lower 80s.

   Pete Rieke, a paralyzed climber from Pasco, Wash., who was
attempting the summit using a invention powered by hand, was not
involved in the accident, Bush said. Rieke was paralyzed from
roughly the waist down in a rock climbing accident.

   Rainier Mountaineering Inc., which organizes and guides climbing
expeditions up the mountain, refused to comment on whether any of
its climbers were involved in the avalanche. ``We have no
information for you at this time,'' a woman answering telephones at
the company's office in Ashford, Wash.

   The worst climbing accident on Mount Rainier was June 21, 1981,
when 11 people on a guided climb died in a massive icefall at
11,000 feet.

   Mount Rainier is about 50 miles southeast of Seattle.
',
			body: '


   (ja) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   SEATTLE _ A dozen climbers nearly 12,000 feet up Mount Rainier
were swept away in an avalanche Thursday afternoon near a rock
formation called Disappointment Cleaver. Four were rescued quickly
and rescue crews were trying to reach the others.

   At around 2:30 p.m. rangers in the national park around the
mountain were notified about the accident by another climber who
was using a cellular telephone.

   ``My understanding is we have some in crevasses and some that
are hanging from ropes at this point,'' said Curt Benson, a
spokesman for the Pierce County Sheriff's Department.

   The cleaver, a large rock formation that splits the Emmons and
Ingraham glaciers, is 11,500 feet up the 14,410-foot mountain. The
disappointment in its name comes from the many people who fail to
make it to the summit because they turn around there, said Gus
Bush, operations leader for Tacoma Mountain Rescue, a volunteer
rescue group trying to reach the stranded climbers.

   Five climbers fell into a crevasse, Bush was told by the
National Park Service. Of the four rescued, two suffered only minor
bumps and two were mildly hypothermic, a National Park Service
spokeswoman, Maria Gillett, said.

   Tacoma Mountain Rescue sent 12 climbers to the park soon after
the call came in shortly after the avalanche, Bush said. They were
to be be airlifted up the mountain by an Army Chinook helicopter
from the town of Longmire, he said.

   Spring snow often turns to a slushy consistency, especially in
the afternoon, Bush said. ``The heat today and the sun coming down
on it, probably triggered it,'' he said, of the avalanche.
Temperatures have recently risen into the upper 70s and lower 80s.

   Pete Rieke, a paralyzed climber from Pasco, Wash., who was
attempting the summit using a invention powered by hand, was not
involved in the accident, Bush said. Rieke was paralyzed from
roughly the waist down in a rock climbing accident.

   Rainier Mountaineering Inc., which organizes and guides climbing
expeditions up the mountain, refused to comment on whether any of
its climbers were involved in the avalanche. ``We have no
information for you at this time,'' a woman answering telephones at
the company's office in Ashford, Wash.

   The worst climbing accident on Mount Rainier was June 21, 1981,
when 11 people on a guided climb died in a massive icefall at
11,000 feet.

   Mount Rainier is about 50 miles southeast of Seattle.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0354 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:26 ',
			header: '
A5498 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BIZGLANCE-NYT &LR;      06-11 0601
',
			slug: ' BC-BIZGLANCE-NYT ',
			headline: '
BUSINESS AT A GLANCE 
',
			trailer: '
   WORKERS AT A SECOND PLANT GO ON STRIKE AGAINST GM

   Nearly 6,000 members of the United Auto Workers union went on
strike Thursday night at a General Motors spark-plug and
speedometer factory in Flint, Mich., joining strikers at a nearby
GM plant in a bitter fight that could close all of the company's
North American assembly plants within days.

   GM had already closed seven North American assembly plants and
temporarily laid off 18,600 workers for lack of parts from the
initial strike at a metal-stamping plant. Most of GM's other 22
assembly plants in the United States, Canada and Mexico are now
expected to quickly run out of spark plugs, speedometers and other
parts.

   ASIA ECONOMIES AND MARKETS SLUMP

   The Japanese yen fell sharply against the U.S. dollar, reaching
nearly an eight-year low and causing some other Asian currencies
and stock markets to drop to their lowest levels in years. The
falling yen appears to be the cause of the latest bout of fear that
the Asian financial crisis may be spreading into the most serious
regional recession since the end of World War II.

   Asian markets finished mostly lower. In Tokyo, the Nikkei index
of 225 stocks lost 325.22 points, to close at 15,014.04, its lowest
level since Jan. 14. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index ended down
93.30 points, or 1.2 percent, at 7,886.07.

   MITSUBISHI MOTOR SETTLES LAWSUIT

   Mitsubishi Motor Corp.'s U.S. subsidiary has agreed to pay $34
million to settle a federal government lawsuit charging that
hundreds of female workers at its automobile assembly plant in
Normal, Ill., had been sexually harassed.

   CHIP MAKER MEETS EXPECTATIONS

   National Semiconductor reported a loss that met analysts'
diminished expectations for the quarter. The chip maker attributed
the loss to a combination of problems, including production
difficulties at its Cyrix subsidiary, the slowdown in
personal-computer sales and the effect of the Asian crisis on sales
of chips used in cellular telephones.

   RETAIL SALES ROSE STRONGLY IN MAY

   Retail sales rose a stronger-than-expected 0.9 percent in May,
to a seasonally adjusted $224.62 billion. Sales of new cars and
trucks jumped 2.4 percent last month, accounting for a quarter of
the increase.

   STOCK-MUTUAL-FUND PURCHASES FALL

   Investors reduced their stock-mutual-fund purchases by about 23
percent in May. An estimated $20.5 billion went into stock mutual
funds during the month, while the buying of bond funds increased.

   PENSION FUNDS SUING CENDANT

   Pension funds in New York and California have filed lawsuits
against Cendant Corp., contending that the business and consumer
services company misled investors about its financial results.

   CANADIAN PACIFIC BUYS SEVEN HOTELS

   Canadian Pacific Hotels said it would buy seven resort hotels
with more than 3,000 rooms in Arizona, Bermuda, Mexico and Barbados
from Princess Hotels for $469 million and assume $71 million in
debt.

   AOL IN PRIVACY SETTLEMENT

   America Online reached a settlement with a highly decorated
sailor who was investigated by the Navy after he posted a message
in which he described himself as ``gay.'' The Navy also reached a
separate settlement with the sailor.

   TOBACCO FEES BILL REJECTED

   The Senate rejected for the second time in a month a Republican
proposal to limit the fees that lawyers could collect from
successful lawsuits against tobacco companies.
',
			body: '


  (lb) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   WORKERS AT A SECOND PLANT GO ON STRIKE AGAINST GM

   Nearly 6,000 members of the United Auto Workers union went on
strike Thursday night at a General Motors spark-plug and
speedometer factory in Flint, Mich., joining strikers at a nearby
GM plant in a bitter fight that could close all of the company's
North American assembly plants within days.

   GM had already closed seven North American assembly plants and
temporarily laid off 18,600 workers for lack of parts from the
initial strike at a metal-stamping plant. Most of GM's other 22
assembly plants in the United States, Canada and Mexico are now
expected to quickly run out of spark plugs, speedometers and other
parts.

   ASIA ECONOMIES AND MARKETS SLUMP

   The Japanese yen fell sharply against the U.S. dollar, reaching
nearly an eight-year low and causing some other Asian currencies
and stock markets to drop to their lowest levels in years. The
falling yen appears to be the cause of the latest bout of fear that
the Asian financial crisis may be spreading into the most serious
regional recession since the end of World War II.

   Asian markets finished mostly lower. In Tokyo, the Nikkei index
of 225 stocks lost 325.22 points, to close at 15,014.04, its lowest
level since Jan. 14. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index ended down
93.30 points, or 1.2 percent, at 7,886.07.

   MITSUBISHI MOTOR SETTLES LAWSUIT

   Mitsubishi Motor Corp.'s U.S. subsidiary has agreed to pay $34
million to settle a federal government lawsuit charging that
hundreds of female workers at its automobile assembly plant in
Normal, Ill., had been sexually harassed.

   CHIP MAKER MEETS EXPECTATIONS

   National Semiconductor reported a loss that met analysts'
diminished expectations for the quarter. The chip maker attributed
the loss to a combination of problems, including production
difficulties at its Cyrix subsidiary, the slowdown in
personal-computer sales and the effect of the Asian crisis on sales
of chips used in cellular telephones.

   RETAIL SALES ROSE STRONGLY IN MAY

   Retail sales rose a stronger-than-expected 0.9 percent in May,
to a seasonally adjusted $224.62 billion. Sales of new cars and
trucks jumped 2.4 percent last month, accounting for a quarter of
the increase.

   STOCK-MUTUAL-FUND PURCHASES FALL

   Investors reduced their stock-mutual-fund purchases by about 23
percent in May. An estimated $20.5 billion went into stock mutual
funds during the month, while the buying of bond funds increased.

   PENSION FUNDS SUING CENDANT

   Pension funds in New York and California have filed lawsuits
against Cendant Corp., contending that the business and consumer
services company misled investors about its financial results.

   CANADIAN PACIFIC BUYS SEVEN HOTELS

   Canadian Pacific Hotels said it would buy seven resort hotels
with more than 3,000 rooms in Arizona, Bermuda, Mexico and Barbados
from Princess Hotels for $469 million and assume $71 million in
debt.

   AOL IN PRIVACY SETTLEMENT

   America Online reached a settlement with a highly decorated
sailor who was investigated by the Navy after he posted a message
in which he described himself as ``gay.'' The Navy also reached a
separate settlement with the sailor.

   TOBACCO FEES BILL REJECTED

   The Senate rejected for the second time in a month a Republican
proposal to limit the fees that lawyers could collect from
successful lawsuits against tobacco companies.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0355 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:27 ',
			header: '
A5499 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-COMPANIES-NYT &LR;      06-11 0108
',
			slug: ' BC-COMPANIES-NYT ',
			headline: '
COMPANY NEWS 
',
			trailer: '
   Iron Mountain Inc., Boston, Mass., a records-management company,
said it would buy National Underground Storage Inc., Boyers, Pa.,
for undisclosed terms.

   Meritor Automotive Inc., Troy, Mich., a maker of truck drive
trains and other auto parts, agreed to buy a Volvo Truck Corp. axle
factory in Lindesberg, Sweden, for an undisclosed amount.

   Mysoftware Co., Palo Alto, Calif., a software company, said it
was exploring a merger or sale of the company and had hired the
investment firm of Lehman Brothers Inc. to help it review its
options. &QL;
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   Iron Mountain Inc., Boston, Mass., a records-management company,
said it would buy National Underground Storage Inc., Boyers, Pa.,
for undisclosed terms.

   Meritor Automotive Inc., Troy, Mich., a maker of truck drive
trains and other auto parts, agreed to buy a Volvo Truck Corp. axle
factory in Lindesberg, Sweden, for an undisclosed amount.

   Mysoftware Co., Palo Alto, Calif., a software company, said it
was exploring a merger or sale of the company and had hired the
investment firm of Lehman Brothers Inc. to help it review its
options. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0356 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:29 ',
			header: '
A5500 &Cx1f; tta-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MAGAZINE-CHECKERS-NYT     06-11 0573
',
			slug: ' BC-MAGAZINE-CHECKERS-NYT ',
			headline: '
MAGAZINES DIVIDED OVER ROLE OF FACT-CHECKERS
',
			trailer: '
   Behind the scenes _ and the words _ of a magazine article are
often anonymous checkers who play the Joe Friday role of rooting
out the truth of stubborn facts.

   They spot misspellings, correct geographic gaffes, cross-check
references and verify descriptions _ even traveling as far as Nova
Scotia or Hawaii for confirmation as researchers did for the New
Yorker, which was once described as the ``Vatican of
fact-checking.''

   But in recent years the philosophy of magazine fact-checking
seems to have divided into different camps with the New Yorker
doubling its workforce of fact checkers to 16 while other magazines
like Newsweek and Time have shifted more of the work to
researcher-reporters who have other responsibilities.

   Do the various fact-checking systems provide enough safeguards
to detect the fabrications of a reporter who makes up quotes or
sources? The soul-searching at magazine offices started soon after
revelations that a New Republic writer, Stephen Glass, had made up
portions of his articles.

   At The New Yorker, Peter Canby, the head of the magazine's
fact-checking department, said fact-checking is an art that
requires diplomacy, a certain radar-like ability to determine that
something is amiss, and the skills to use a variety of cross
references. Writers at the New Yorker and other publications like
Vanity Fair and Rolling Stone are expected to give fact-checkers
all supporting documents _ from notes to tape cassettes and videos.

   ``We would have smoked it out very quickly,'' Canby said of the
fabricated New Republic stories. ``However, I can tell you that
there is no absolute guard. The good checkers have an instinct and
they just know if it's solid or not. Beyond that, it's the process
of cross-checking. We really don't take anything at face value. We
check things in the notes and even if we have the notes, we still
go to the sources.''

   Several executives from different publications conceded that
even with the most rigorous standards it would be difficult to
detect the fabrications of a reporter who was intent on making
something up with fake documentation.

   ``A magazine is only as good as its individual journalists,''
said Jim Kelly, a deputy managing editor for Time. ``If an
individual journalist wants to put something over on the magazine
and is determined enough, they're likely to succeed to some
degree.''

   At Time, he said that more and more the accuracy of a story is
the responsibility of the person who reports and writes the
article. But complicated stories _ based on reports from various
correspondents _ are reviewed by reporters who have fact-checking
duties.

   Time's rival, Newsweek, came under criticism last year after
eliminating its traditional fact-checking department and shifting
the work to researcher-reporters. The Columbia Journalism Review
faulted its fact-checking for overlooking a mistaken recommendation
in a special issue on ``Your Child'' that suggested giving young
infants raw carrot chunks and zwiebacks, although it could cause
them to choke. Thousands of copies of the issue were later
recalled.

   At the time, Newsweek described the mistake as a human error and
generally defended the shift in the fact-checking role.
',
			body: '


   (Sidebar with BC-MAGAZINE-FABRICATION-NYT) 
(sw) 
 By DOREEN CARVAJAL   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   Behind the scenes _ and the words _ of a magazine article are
often anonymous checkers who play the Joe Friday role of rooting
out the truth of stubborn facts.

   They spot misspellings, correct geographic gaffes, cross-check
references and verify descriptions _ even traveling as far as Nova
Scotia or Hawaii for confirmation as researchers did for the New
Yorker, which was once described as the ``Vatican of
fact-checking.''

   But in recent years the philosophy of magazine fact-checking
seems to have divided into different camps with the New Yorker
doubling its workforce of fact checkers to 16 while other magazines
like Newsweek and Time have shifted more of the work to
researcher-reporters who have other responsibilities.

   Do the various fact-checking systems provide enough safeguards
to detect the fabrications of a reporter who makes up quotes or
sources? The soul-searching at magazine offices started soon after
revelations that a New Republic writer, Stephen Glass, had made up
portions of his articles.

   At The New Yorker, Peter Canby, the head of the magazine's
fact-checking department, said fact-checking is an art that
requires diplomacy, a certain radar-like ability to determine that
something is amiss, and the skills to use a variety of cross
references. Writers at the New Yorker and other publications like
Vanity Fair and Rolling Stone are expected to give fact-checkers
all supporting documents _ from notes to tape cassettes and videos.

   ``We would have smoked it out very quickly,'' Canby said of the
fabricated New Republic stories. ``However, I can tell you that
there is no absolute guard. The good checkers have an instinct and
they just know if it's solid or not. Beyond that, it's the process
of cross-checking. We really don't take anything at face value. We
check things in the notes and even if we have the notes, we still
go to the sources.''

   Several executives from different publications conceded that
even with the most rigorous standards it would be difficult to
detect the fabrications of a reporter who was intent on making
something up with fake documentation.

   ``A magazine is only as good as its individual journalists,''
said Jim Kelly, a deputy managing editor for Time. ``If an
individual journalist wants to put something over on the magazine
and is determined enough, they're likely to succeed to some
degree.''

   At Time, he said that more and more the accuracy of a story is
the responsibility of the person who reports and writes the
article. But complicated stories _ based on reports from various
correspondents _ are reviewed by reporters who have fact-checking
duties.

   Time's rival, Newsweek, came under criticism last year after
eliminating its traditional fact-checking department and shifting
the work to researcher-reporters. The Columbia Journalism Review
faulted its fact-checking for overlooking a mistaken recommendation
in a special issue on ``Your Child'' that suggested giving young
infants raw carrot chunks and zwiebacks, although it could cause
them to choke. Thousands of copies of the issue were later
recalled.

   At the time, Newsweek described the mistake as a human error and
generally defended the shift in the fact-checking role.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0357 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:29 ',
			header: '
A5501 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GM-SUPERIOR-LADN     06-11 0465
',
			slug: ' BC-GM-SUPERIOR-LADN ',
			headline: '
GM WOES MAY HURT L.A. FIRM
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Superior Industries may shut down some or all of
its six plants nationwide as early as next week, hurt by a strike
that has immobilized its biggest client.

   The manufacturer of cast aluminum wheels for the automotive
industry, based in the L.A. suburb of Van Nuys, also said the
week-long strike at General Motors Corp. will hurt revenues for the
quarter. GM accounts for 47 percent of Superior's annual sales.

   ``We will miss earnings estimates this quarter,'' said Jeff
Ornstein, Superior's chief financial officer.

   For now, the Van Nuys plant is safe. Superior said the facility
will take its scheduled two-week shutdown on June 22 to retool for
a different model. The other five out-of-state facilities might
have to take their scheduled shutdowns earlier.

   But if the strike lasts more than three weeks, the plants could
be closed longer and all employees at the affected facilities would
have to take unpaid leaves, Ornstein said.

   Superior employs 4,500 people in its six plants, including 1,000
in Van Nuys.

   ``We're monitoring the situation daily,'' Ornstein said. ``We're
meeting several times a day.''

   The United Auto Workers union began a strike at a GM parts plant
in Flint, Mich., a week ago to protest the automaker's plan to
reduce union employment 25 percent companywide.

   Superior and other GM suppliers are feeling the impact of the
strike because of a relatively new trend in auto making known as
just-in-time manufacturing. That means automakers don't accept
goods from their suppliers until just before they're needed,
cutting down on overhead and storage costs.

   But just-in-time leaves suppliers and General Motors more
vulnerable to unforeseen events such as strikes, analysts said.

   However, once the strike ends, suppliers will get a chance to
beef up production again to meet increased demand from GM. This
catch-up should help offset whatever revenues suppliers lost during
the strike, analysts said.

   ``It ought to be a short-term phenomenon,'' said Philip Fricke,
an analyst at Prudential Securities in New York.

   GM plants have excess capacity in the third quarter to boost car
production among its plants, since it's typically used less at that
time due to employee vacations and other down time, Fricke said.

   In the short-term, the stocks of GM suppliers will stay flat or
decline as a result of the strike, according to Richard Hilgert, an
analyst at First of Michigan brokerage in Detroit.

   Superior Industries closed at 27 1/4 (one-quarter) on Thursday,
down 1 1/16 (one-sixteenth). Superior lost 1 5/16
(five-sixteenths).
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By DEBORAH ADAMSON  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Superior Industries may shut down some or all of
its six plants nationwide as early as next week, hurt by a strike
that has immobilized its biggest client.

   The manufacturer of cast aluminum wheels for the automotive
industry, based in the L.A. suburb of Van Nuys, also said the
week-long strike at General Motors Corp. will hurt revenues for the
quarter. GM accounts for 47 percent of Superior's annual sales.

   ``We will miss earnings estimates this quarter,'' said Jeff
Ornstein, Superior's chief financial officer.

   For now, the Van Nuys plant is safe. Superior said the facility
will take its scheduled two-week shutdown on June 22 to retool for
a different model. The other five out-of-state facilities might
have to take their scheduled shutdowns earlier.

   But if the strike lasts more than three weeks, the plants could
be closed longer and all employees at the affected facilities would
have to take unpaid leaves, Ornstein said.

   Superior employs 4,500 people in its six plants, including 1,000
in Van Nuys.

   ``We're monitoring the situation daily,'' Ornstein said. ``We're
meeting several times a day.''

   The United Auto Workers union began a strike at a GM parts plant
in Flint, Mich., a week ago to protest the automaker's plan to
reduce union employment 25 percent companywide.

   Superior and other GM suppliers are feeling the impact of the
strike because of a relatively new trend in auto making known as
just-in-time manufacturing. That means automakers don't accept
goods from their suppliers until just before they're needed,
cutting down on overhead and storage costs.

   But just-in-time leaves suppliers and General Motors more
vulnerable to unforeseen events such as strikes, analysts said.

   However, once the strike ends, suppliers will get a chance to
beef up production again to meet increased demand from GM. This
catch-up should help offset whatever revenues suppliers lost during
the strike, analysts said.

   ``It ought to be a short-term phenomenon,'' said Philip Fricke,
an analyst at Prudential Securities in New York.

   GM plants have excess capacity in the third quarter to boost car
production among its plants, since it's typically used less at that
time due to employee vacations and other down time, Fricke said.

   In the short-term, the stocks of GM suppliers will stay flat or
decline as a result of the strike, according to Richard Hilgert, an
analyst at First of Michigan brokerage in Detroit.

   Superior Industries closed at 27 1/4 (one-quarter) on Thursday,
down 1 1/16 (one-sixteenth). Superior lost 1 5/16
(five-sixteenths).
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0358 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:30 ',
			header: '
A5502 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BBN-DODGERS-NOTES-LAD     06-11 0594
',
			slug: ' BC-BBN-DODGERS-NOTES-LADN ',
			headline: '
HOLLANDSWORTH OUT FOR SEASON
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Dodgers left fielder Todd Hollandsworth will miss
the rest of the season after undergoing surgery Thursday to repair
torn cartilage in his left shoulder.

   Team orthopedist Frank Jobe said he found no new damage during
the 1{-hour procedure performed at Centinela Hospital Medical
Center. A three-month recovery time, plus rehabilitation, ruins any
chance of a return until spring training.

   ``It usually takes about four months for this to heal and get
his strength back and get ready to play baseball again,'' Jobe
said. ``That pretty much rules out this season.''

   Hollandsworth, 24, has been bothered by injuries throughout his
career. He missed most of the 1995 season with wrist and hand
problems. He recovered to win the National League Rookie of the
Year Award in 1996, but played just 106 games last year because of
knee and elbow problems.

   Hollandsworth, who was batting .269 with three homers and 20
RBI, injured his shoulder May 19 in Chicago diving back to first
base. He played two more weeks and even had a nine-game hitting
streak, but the pain got worse.

   Hollandsworth underwent an MRI exam, which revealed a tear in
the cartilage on top of the left shoulder. A second MRI on Tuesday
confirmed the tear.

   Jobe was confident the damage has been repaired and pointed to
the recovery of Dodgers right-hander Jim Bruske, who is second on
the team with 26 appearances after undergoing a similar procedure
2{ years ago.

   But Jobe cautioned that Hollandsworth's injury is not something
that can be rushed.

   ``Mother nature puts a limit on the healing time at three
months,'' he said. ``I know it is not Todd's style to be patient.
He wants to be out there. But wreck it and we'll have to do it all
over again.''

   Wild West: The Dodgers, who trail the San Francisco Giants by 7{
games, head into tonight's series opener against Colorado with a
stretch of nine games against NL West Division opponents.

   Manager Bill Russell, however, said the new schedule, which has
glitches from accommodating interleague play and expansion, robs
fans of traditional rivalries.

   The Dodgers do not play the Giants until the July 4 weekend in
San Francisco. They also play more games this year against NL
Central teams than their own division and finish the season with
four games at Dodger Stadium against the Milwaukee Brewers.

   ``The fans like interleague play and that is great, but this is
the result,'' Russell said. ``The teams you want to play with the
season on the line are off playing someone else.

   ``I think if you really want to keep up interest in baseball,
you have to make the rivalries a priority at key points in the
season.''

   The Dodgers play San Diego and San Francisco at home in the
first week after the All-Star break. They also play 16 games
between those clubs in September, including six with the Giants.

   Young returns: Second baseman Eric Young returns to the lineup
tonight when the Dodgers play host to his former team, the Colorado
Rockies. Young, leading the majors with 26 stolen bases, aggravated
a strained right-thigh muscle Tuesday night against Oakland lunging
back to the second-base bag. He didn't play Wednesday.

   ``The way he landed was awkward, but our reports say he is much
improved,'' Dodgers executive Fred Claire said. ``This is a big
series and I know it is important to E.Y.''
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By MATT McHALE  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Dodgers left fielder Todd Hollandsworth will miss
the rest of the season after undergoing surgery Thursday to repair
torn cartilage in his left shoulder.

   Team orthopedist Frank Jobe said he found no new damage during
the 1{-hour procedure performed at Centinela Hospital Medical
Center. A three-month recovery time, plus rehabilitation, ruins any
chance of a return until spring training.

   ``It usually takes about four months for this to heal and get
his strength back and get ready to play baseball again,'' Jobe
said. ``That pretty much rules out this season.''

   Hollandsworth, 24, has been bothered by injuries throughout his
career. He missed most of the 1995 season with wrist and hand
problems. He recovered to win the National League Rookie of the
Year Award in 1996, but played just 106 games last year because of
knee and elbow problems.

   Hollandsworth, who was batting .269 with three homers and 20
RBI, injured his shoulder May 19 in Chicago diving back to first
base. He played two more weeks and even had a nine-game hitting
streak, but the pain got worse.

   Hollandsworth underwent an MRI exam, which revealed a tear in
the cartilage on top of the left shoulder. A second MRI on Tuesday
confirmed the tear.

   Jobe was confident the damage has been repaired and pointed to
the recovery of Dodgers right-hander Jim Bruske, who is second on
the team with 26 appearances after undergoing a similar procedure
2{ years ago.

   But Jobe cautioned that Hollandsworth's injury is not something
that can be rushed.

   ``Mother nature puts a limit on the healing time at three
months,'' he said. ``I know it is not Todd's style to be patient.
He wants to be out there. But wreck it and we'll have to do it all
over again.''

   Wild West: The Dodgers, who trail the San Francisco Giants by 7{
games, head into tonight's series opener against Colorado with a
stretch of nine games against NL West Division opponents.

   Manager Bill Russell, however, said the new schedule, which has
glitches from accommodating interleague play and expansion, robs
fans of traditional rivalries.

   The Dodgers do not play the Giants until the July 4 weekend in
San Francisco. They also play more games this year against NL
Central teams than their own division and finish the season with
four games at Dodger Stadium against the Milwaukee Brewers.

   ``The fans like interleague play and that is great, but this is
the result,'' Russell said. ``The teams you want to play with the
season on the line are off playing someone else.

   ``I think if you really want to keep up interest in baseball,
you have to make the rivalries a priority at key points in the
season.''

   The Dodgers play San Diego and San Francisco at home in the
first week after the All-Star break. They also play 16 games
between those clubs in September, including six with the Giants.

   Young returns: Second baseman Eric Young returns to the lineup
tonight when the Dodgers play host to his former team, the Colorado
Rockies. Young, leading the majors with 26 stolen bases, aggravated
a strained right-thigh muscle Tuesday night against Oakland lunging
back to the second-base bag. He didn't play Wednesday.

   ``The way he landed was awkward, but our reports say he is much
improved,'' Dodgers executive Fred Claire said. ``This is a big
series and I know it is important to E.Y.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0359 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:30 ',
			header: '
A5504 &Cx1f; taf-z
s f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS-ART-$     06-11 0986
',
			slug: ' BC-SPEND-BIZ-BOOKS-ART-$ADV14-NYT ',
			headline: '
KICKING SOME SAND INTO POWERFUL FACES  
 (FOR RELEASE SUNDAY, JUNE 14) 
',
			trailer: '
   Here's some excellent beach reading: a pair of business books
that are light enough to tote (83 and 102 pages, respectively) yet
anything but scrawny.

   ``Team Rodent: How Disney Devours the World,'' by Carl Hiaasen,
and ``News Is a Verb: Journalism at the End of the Twentieth
Century,'' by Pete Hamill ($8.95 each), are part of a new series by
Ballantine's Library of Contemporary Thought _ short paperbacks by
high-profile writers on everything from sports to the Supreme
Court.

   The waxing of Disney and the waning of newspapers are the chosen
subjects of Hiaasen and Hamill. And well-chosen they are: These
terrifically constructed complaints seem to have burst full-blown
from some longtime mental fumings.

   ``Team Rodent'' was published last month and immediately made it
onto the New York Times business best-seller list. In the book,
Hiaasen, a best-selling crime novelist and a columnist for The
Miami Herald, attacks _ informatively and hilariously _ the
Disneyfication of the globe, with special attention to Florida and
New York City's Times Square.

   (The latter, a once ``skanky oozepot'' of sleaze, tested our
taste and tolerance, he argues. And revulsion, unlike the Mickey
and Minnie garden statues at the enormous new Disney Store on 42nd
Street, is ``essential to the human experience.'')

   The author says that overall, the Walt Disney Co. is well run
and even progressive in its policies toward its gay employees. And
he discloses that he has made the parental pilgrimage to Disney
World in Orlando, Fla. So what does he hate about the House of the
Mouse?

   For starters, its wholesome-image machine. The company produces
gritty rap music through its records unit, he notes, and
distributes violent movies like ``Pulp Fiction'' even as it makes
``101 Dalmatians.''

   One extremely funny chapter chronicles a frantic day last year
when Disney's Hollywood Records division released, then withdrew,
an album that contained filthy lyrics by a group called the Insane
Clown Posse.

   Hiaasen also condemns the company for the trample of tourists
into Florida _ soon to reach about 46 million annually _ and for
what he calls endless ``roadside schlock'' set up to relieve these
Disney World pilgrims of any leftover cash. Paradoxically, he says,
the only relief now from the ugly sprawl (once cattle ranches and
fruit orchards) is the verdant Disney complex itself.

   But his biggest complaint is against Disney's sheer power _ over
our imaginations, municipalities and media. The company ``touches
virtually every human being in America for a profit,'' he writes,
with its theme parks, movie companies and television networks. For
baby boomers especially, he notes, Disney is the ``benign
enchanter-protector,'' an image embedded ``in the collective
parental psyche.''

   Hiaasen's sharp irreverence works wonderfully, as he takes jabs
at Disney's new cruise ship and privately owned Caribbean island;
its chairman, Michael D. Eisner, and what he calls its ``shell
municipality'' in Florida _ the Reedy Creek Improvement District, a
kind of parallel government, a ``Vatican with mouse ears,'' in the
words of a friend he quotes.

   A special gem is the chapter on the ``world's largest press
party'' given at Disney World to commemorate the bicentennial of
the U.S. Constitution and the resort's 15th anniversary. The 5,200
people in attendance were offered mounds of food and souvenirs.
They also got the chance to see a respected colleague _ a weary
Nick Daniloff, the U.S. News and World Report writer wrongly jailed
by the Soviets for spying _ welcomed back to America with
outstretched arms. The furry arms, of course, of Mickey Mouse.

   TABLOIDS IN TROUBLE: ``News Is a Verb'' gets its title from its
author's belief that it's bad business _ not just bad judgment _
for newspapers to compulsively cover the rich or famous when they
haven't done anything newsworthy. Our papers, he writes, are
``runny with the virus of celebrity.''

   Hamill, a novelist and longtime New York journalist who was the
editor of The New York Daily News for eight months last year, loves
newspapers. He remembers when tabloids had hard-hitting news
missions, social campaigns and beautifully rendered comic strips.
And he hates the ``reader-driven'' coverage that he says dumbs down
articles in both tabloids and broadsheets.

   What's more, he says, all of this is killing, not reviving, an
already ailing newspaper industry.

   Profits may be up these days because of a strong economy and
robust advertising, he says, but the overall weekday circulation of
the nation's dailies has stagnated over the last few decades.

   The nation's publishers and top editors know exactly what
they're doing, he writes, citing a recent Editor &AMP; Publisher poll
in which 65 percent of newspaper executives agreed that newspapers
cover ``politics and personalities at the expense of policy.''
About 48 percent characterized the national press as ``shallow and
inadequate.''

   To get the readers back _ particularly women and immigrants _
newspapers must cover health and safety issues, municipal
government and, especially, foreign policy, Hamill says. And
publishers must forge alliances _ with the immigrant press in our
cities and with newsstands in unfashionable neighborhoods.

   Hamill's arguments, backed by a fascinating foray into New York
press history, are lively, compelling and persuasive. ``Sooner or
later, the reader wises up'' when news isn't newsworthy, he says.
``Sometimes sooner. Always later.''
',
			body: '


   (ART ADV: Graphic showing best-selling business books (monthly
list) will be sent to NYT graphic clients. Non-subscribers can make
individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.)  
 (af)  
 By DEBORAH STEAD   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here's some excellent beach reading: a pair of business books
that are light enough to tote (83 and 102 pages, respectively) yet
anything but scrawny.

   ``Team Rodent: How Disney Devours the World,'' by Carl Hiaasen,
and ``News Is a Verb: Journalism at the End of the Twentieth
Century,'' by Pete Hamill ($8.95 each), are part of a new series by
Ballantine's Library of Contemporary Thought _ short paperbacks by
high-profile writers on everything from sports to the Supreme
Court.

   The waxing of Disney and the waning of newspapers are the chosen
subjects of Hiaasen and Hamill. And well-chosen they are: These
terrifically constructed complaints seem to have burst full-blown
from some longtime mental fumings.

   ``Team Rodent'' was published last month and immediately made it
onto the New York Times business best-seller list. In the book,
Hiaasen, a best-selling crime novelist and a columnist for The
Miami Herald, attacks _ informatively and hilariously _ the
Disneyfication of the globe, with special attention to Florida and
New York City's Times Square.

   (The latter, a once ``skanky oozepot'' of sleaze, tested our
taste and tolerance, he argues. And revulsion, unlike the Mickey
and Minnie garden statues at the enormous new Disney Store on 42nd
Street, is ``essential to the human experience.'')

   The author says that overall, the Walt Disney Co. is well run
and even progressive in its policies toward its gay employees. And
he discloses that he has made the parental pilgrimage to Disney
World in Orlando, Fla. So what does he hate about the House of the
Mouse?

   For starters, its wholesome-image machine. The company produces
gritty rap music through its records unit, he notes, and
distributes violent movies like ``Pulp Fiction'' even as it makes
``101 Dalmatians.''

   One extremely funny chapter chronicles a frantic day last year
when Disney's Hollywood Records division released, then withdrew,
an album that contained filthy lyrics by a group called the Insane
Clown Posse.

   Hiaasen also condemns the company for the trample of tourists
into Florida _ soon to reach about 46 million annually _ and for
what he calls endless ``roadside schlock'' set up to relieve these
Disney World pilgrims of any leftover cash. Paradoxically, he says,
the only relief now from the ugly sprawl (once cattle ranches and
fruit orchards) is the verdant Disney complex itself.

   But his biggest complaint is against Disney's sheer power _ over
our imaginations, municipalities and media. The company ``touches
virtually every human being in America for a profit,'' he writes,
with its theme parks, movie companies and television networks. For
baby boomers especially, he notes, Disney is the ``benign
enchanter-protector,'' an image embedded ``in the collective
parental psyche.''

   Hiaasen's sharp irreverence works wonderfully, as he takes jabs
at Disney's new cruise ship and privately owned Caribbean island;
its chairman, Michael D. Eisner, and what he calls its ``shell
municipality'' in Florida _ the Reedy Creek Improvement District, a
kind of parallel government, a ``Vatican with mouse ears,'' in the
words of a friend he quotes.

   A special gem is the chapter on the ``world's largest press
party'' given at Disney World to commemorate the bicentennial of
the U.S. Constitution and the resort's 15th anniversary. The 5,200
people in attendance were offered mounds of food and souvenirs.
They also got the chance to see a respected colleague _ a weary
Nick Daniloff, the U.S. News and World Report writer wrongly jailed
by the Soviets for spying _ welcomed back to America with
outstretched arms. The furry arms, of course, of Mickey Mouse.

   TABLOIDS IN TROUBLE: ``News Is a Verb'' gets its title from its
author's belief that it's bad business _ not just bad judgment _
for newspapers to compulsively cover the rich or famous when they
haven't done anything newsworthy. Our papers, he writes, are
``runny with the virus of celebrity.''

   Hamill, a novelist and longtime New York journalist who was the
editor of The New York Daily News for eight months last year, loves
newspapers. He remembers when tabloids had hard-hitting news
missions, social campaigns and beautifully rendered comic strips.
And he hates the ``reader-driven'' coverage that he says dumbs down
articles in both tabloids and broadsheets.

   What's more, he says, all of this is killing, not reviving, an
already ailing newspaper industry.

   Profits may be up these days because of a strong economy and
robust advertising, he says, but the overall weekday circulation of
the nation's dailies has stagnated over the last few decades.

   The nation's publishers and top editors know exactly what
they're doing, he writes, citing a recent Editor &AMP; Publisher poll
in which 65 percent of newspaper executives agreed that newspapers
cover ``politics and personalities at the expense of policy.''
About 48 percent characterized the national press as ``shallow and
inadequate.''

   To get the readers back _ particularly women and immigrants _
newspapers must cover health and safety issues, municipal
government and, especially, foreign policy, Hamill says. And
publishers must forge alliances _ with the immigrant press in our
cities and with newsstands in unfashionable neighborhoods.

   Hamill's arguments, backed by a fascinating foray into New York
press history, are lively, compelling and persuasive. ``Sooner or
later, the reader wises up'' when news isn't newsworthy, he says.
``Sometimes sooner. Always later.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0360 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:33 ',
			header: '
A5507 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ELIMINATE-NY-BARTENDE     06-11 0036
',
			slug: ' BC-ELIMINATE-NY-BARTENDERS-HATSNYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   (pr) &QL;

   &UR; EDITORS: &LR;

   NY-BARTENDERS-HATS (New York) will not move in tonight's New
York Times News Service file.

   N.Y.Times News Service, June 11.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   (pr) &QL;

   &UR; EDITORS: &LR;

   NY-BARTENDERS-HATS (New York) will not move in tonight's New
York Times News Service file.

   N.Y.Times News Service, June 11.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0361 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:36 ',
			header: '
A5508 &Cx1f; taf-z
u w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CLINTON-STARR-NYT &LR;      06-11 0760
',
			slug: ' BC-CLINTON-STARR-NYT ',
			headline: '
GRAND JURY HEARS WITNESS WHO FIRST BACKED, THEN DISPUTED, WILLEY 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ The federal grand jury investigating the Monica
Lewinsky matter heard Thursday from Julie Hiatt Steele, a former
friend of Kathleen Willey, the woman who went on national
television to accuse President Clinton of groping her in the Oval
Office nearly five years ago.

   Ms. Steele initially corroborated Ms. Willey's account to a
reporter at Newsweek magazine. But shortly before the article was
published, she said she had lied about it at Ms. Willey's
insistence.

   She then became Ms. Willey's biggest critic last March, after
the one-time Clinton administration volunteer went on the widely
watched television program ``60 Minutes'' and described in painful
detail what she said was Clinton's unwanted advance on her at a
time when she was feeling financially stressed and had come to ask
for a full-time job.

   The Steele-Willey dispute is one of the many byways of the
Lewinsky inquiry, which is examining whether anyone lied or
obstructed justice in the sexual harassment lawsuit filed against
Clinton by Paula Jones.

   Mrs. Jones' lawyers were seeking to establish that Clinton's
treatment of women in the workplace showed a pattern of harassment
that stretched from his years as governor of Arkansas to the White
House, including the incident with Ms. Willey and a relationship
with White House intern Monica Lewinsky.

   Both Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky told Mrs. Jones' lawyers in sworn
statements that they did not have a sexual relationship. But a
colleague of Ms. Lewinsky, Linda . Tripp, turned over taped
conversations that they had to independent counsel Kenneth Starr in
which Ms. Lewinsky admitted an affair, lawyers who have heard the
tapes say. And now Starr's prosecutors are investigating whether
Clinton or top aides urged Ms. Lewinsky to lie about their
relationship.

   The inquiry is also looking at whether anyone else was
encouraged to lie in the Jones lawsuit. Ms. Willey is mainly of
interest to the investigators because she is the subject of a
three-page document of ``talking points'' that Ms. Lewinsky gave to
Ms. Tripp last January. In the talking points memorandum, Ms. Tripp
is encouraged to tell Mrs. Jones' lawyers that she did not believe
Ms. Willey's account of her meeting with Clinton.

   Emerging after her daylong appearance before the grand jury, Ms.
Steele bitterly criticized Ms. Willey and Newsweek reporter Michael
Isikoff, who reported last year about Ms. Steele's contradictory
recollections of Ms. Willey's encounter with the president.

   Within days of Ms. Willey's appearance on ``60 Minutes'' last
March, Ms. Steele released an affidavit in which she asserted that
Ms. Willey had ``never said anything to suggest that President
Clinton made sexual advances towards her or otherwise acted
inappropriately in her presence.''

   ``Over a year ago, I made two mistakes,'' Ms. Steele said in
front of the U.S. courthouse in Washington on Thursday. ``I did a
favor for someone I thought was my friend and I trusted a
reporter.'' She said that as a result, her reputation had been
damaged, her health had deteriorated, and she had to hide from
reporters.

   Ms. Steele repeated her assertion that no one at the White House
had put her up to challenging Ms. Willey. She also said she had
regretted what she had done. ``Although I didn't vote for Clinton,
I want to apologize to him and his family,'' she said.

   Ms. Steele on Thursday filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court in
Washington for breach of contract against Isikoff, Newsweek and the
magazine's corporate parent, The Washington Post Co. The lawsuit
contends that the magazine had failed to abide by an agreement that
her comments would be off-the-record and her name would not appear
in any articles.

   Nancy Luque, Ms. Steele's lawyer, said Isikoff had ``not only
burned a source, he torched her.''

   Isikoff was on vacation Thursday and could not be reached for
comment. But Newsweek issued a statement saying, ``We are confident
that investigative correspondent Michael Isikoff followed all
appropriate news gathering and reporting practices.''

   The grand jury had been scheduled Thursday to take the testimony
of John Podesta, the deputy chief of staff at the White House. But
shortly after Podesta's arrival at the courthouse, he was told that
there would not be time for an appearance, and that he would have
to return again.
',
			body: '


   (bl)  
 By STEPHEN LABATON   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ The federal grand jury investigating the Monica
Lewinsky matter heard Thursday from Julie Hiatt Steele, a former
friend of Kathleen Willey, the woman who went on national
television to accuse President Clinton of groping her in the Oval
Office nearly five years ago.

   Ms. Steele initially corroborated Ms. Willey's account to a
reporter at Newsweek magazine. But shortly before the article was
published, she said she had lied about it at Ms. Willey's
insistence.

   She then became Ms. Willey's biggest critic last March, after
the one-time Clinton administration volunteer went on the widely
watched television program ``60 Minutes'' and described in painful
detail what she said was Clinton's unwanted advance on her at a
time when she was feeling financially stressed and had come to ask
for a full-time job.

   The Steele-Willey dispute is one of the many byways of the
Lewinsky inquiry, which is examining whether anyone lied or
obstructed justice in the sexual harassment lawsuit filed against
Clinton by Paula Jones.

   Mrs. Jones' lawyers were seeking to establish that Clinton's
treatment of women in the workplace showed a pattern of harassment
that stretched from his years as governor of Arkansas to the White
House, including the incident with Ms. Willey and a relationship
with White House intern Monica Lewinsky.

   Both Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky told Mrs. Jones' lawyers in sworn
statements that they did not have a sexual relationship. But a
colleague of Ms. Lewinsky, Linda . Tripp, turned over taped
conversations that they had to independent counsel Kenneth Starr in
which Ms. Lewinsky admitted an affair, lawyers who have heard the
tapes say. And now Starr's prosecutors are investigating whether
Clinton or top aides urged Ms. Lewinsky to lie about their
relationship.

   The inquiry is also looking at whether anyone else was
encouraged to lie in the Jones lawsuit. Ms. Willey is mainly of
interest to the investigators because she is the subject of a
three-page document of ``talking points'' that Ms. Lewinsky gave to
Ms. Tripp last January. In the talking points memorandum, Ms. Tripp
is encouraged to tell Mrs. Jones' lawyers that she did not believe
Ms. Willey's account of her meeting with Clinton.

   Emerging after her daylong appearance before the grand jury, Ms.
Steele bitterly criticized Ms. Willey and Newsweek reporter Michael
Isikoff, who reported last year about Ms. Steele's contradictory
recollections of Ms. Willey's encounter with the president.

   Within days of Ms. Willey's appearance on ``60 Minutes'' last
March, Ms. Steele released an affidavit in which she asserted that
Ms. Willey had ``never said anything to suggest that President
Clinton made sexual advances towards her or otherwise acted
inappropriately in her presence.''

   ``Over a year ago, I made two mistakes,'' Ms. Steele said in
front of the U.S. courthouse in Washington on Thursday. ``I did a
favor for someone I thought was my friend and I trusted a
reporter.'' She said that as a result, her reputation had been
damaged, her health had deteriorated, and she had to hide from
reporters.

   Ms. Steele repeated her assertion that no one at the White House
had put her up to challenging Ms. Willey. She also said she had
regretted what she had done. ``Although I didn't vote for Clinton,
I want to apologize to him and his family,'' she said.

   Ms. Steele on Thursday filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court in
Washington for breach of contract against Isikoff, Newsweek and the
magazine's corporate parent, The Washington Post Co. The lawsuit
contends that the magazine had failed to abide by an agreement that
her comments would be off-the-record and her name would not appear
in any articles.

   Nancy Luque, Ms. Steele's lawyer, said Isikoff had ``not only
burned a source, he torched her.''

   Isikoff was on vacation Thursday and could not be reached for
comment. But Newsweek issued a statement saying, ``We are confident
that investigative correspondent Michael Isikoff followed all
appropriate news gathering and reporting practices.''

   The grand jury had been scheduled Thursday to take the testimony
of John Podesta, the deputy chief of staff at the White House. But
shortly after Podesta's arrival at the courthouse, he was told that
there would not be time for an appearance, and that he would have
to return again.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0362 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:37 ',
			header: '
A5509 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BKN-BULLS-NYT &LR;      06-11 0920
',
			slug: ' BC-BKN-BULLS-NYT ',
			headline: '
IF FRIDAY'S THEIR LAST DANCE, BULLS HAVE THE RIGHT FLOOR 
',
			trailer: '
   CHICAGO _ There is a certain series-ending feel about Friday
night. If the cast of stars and oddball sidekicks who have made up
the Bulls' dramatic run must fade to black, this is where they want
to let go of their gilded era. In the warmth of their own sound
stage.

   The Bulls want to hug their sixth National Basketball
Association title in eight years and walk off into the unknown
after being drenched in adulation at the United Center.

   This is where Michael Jordan wants to embrace the partner he has
always called his little brother, Scottie Pippen, if the talented
forward should leave the nest next year in search of free-agent
wealth. And this is where Phil Jackson wants to make a grand exit
as Bulls coach for what he believes is his last season as their Zen
leader.

   A dynasty could end here. The Bulls all say so. Whether this
talk is out of leverage or reality, no one is sure. But it is that
uncertainty that left the questions leading up to Friday's Game 5
laden with nostalgia after Thursday's practice.

   And yet, the Bulls, even with a comfortable 3-1 lead in this
four-of-seven-game series, did not dare indulge themselves in the
moment to wax on about the magnitude of closing out the Utah Jazz
at home.

   ``We can't conjure emotion that's not a reality yet,'' Jackson
said. ``Who knows how we're going to feel. I may break down and cry
like a baby if we win Friday night.''

   It is the threat of losing Game 5 and sending the series back to
Salt Lake City that kept the competitive edge in Jordan's voice
Thursday. He was not ready to write off the Jazz as a team
psychologically whipped by the aura of the Bulls and physically
beaten by the intensity of Pippen's pick-and-roll defusing defense.

   ``I know they are not going to roll over and die,'' Jordan said
of John Stockton and Karl Malone. ``I see belief in their eyes. As
an opponent, we've got to take every little bit of that belief away
from them. You don't just stab them, you have to turn it once you
stick it in or they'll continue to fight. Friday is the time to do
it.''

   It is time for the Jazz to equal the Bulls' determination. The
team that entered this series with the home-court advantage and a
stockpile of confidence is one game from an unthinkable collapse
after taking Game 1.

   Stockton and Malone, where are you? This was supposed to be
their moment after 13 years of togetherness. Just the thought of
being known as a duo that vanished under pressure seems to be a
major motivation for the Jazz.

   ``You want to continue to play and fight, because the most
important thing is you have to prolong your career in this
league,'' Malone said. ``If you're known as a quitter in this
business, 27 or 28 other teams see that.''

   Most have seen a team uncharacteristically flustered by the
Bulls' defense. With Pippen roving on the court, his long arms and
quick instincts have disrupted the link between Stockton and
Malone.

   Instead of breaking out of the pick-and-roll system and bulling
his way to the basket, Malone has been inhibited by the team's
design, as well as by Dennis Rodman. In the fourth quarters of
Games 2, 3 and 4, Malone is 1 for 5, while Stockton has hit 1 of 6
shots. Even in Game 1, only one half of the combo, Stockton, was
fully functioning.

   ``This series should be over with in my opinion,'' Jazz center
Greg Foster said. ``We didn't play well enough to win in Game 1. We
just got lucky.''

   This may be a disheartening response, but it is an honest one.
The predicament of the Jazz is not just a product of a system gone
awry. The Jazz has yet to engage the Bulls in a physical battle,
exhibiting passive behavior under pressure.

   You can see it in the players' tentative jumpers and hesitance
to drive toward the basket. Perhaps the officiating can be
questioned, but the Jazz went to the free-throw line just three
times in the fourth quarter of Game 4, while the Bulls strutted
there 24 times.

   No referee can be blamed for how the Jazz has turned as soft as
pastels on the offensive boards. As a result, the Bulls got away
with shooting 37 percent in Game 4 because of second-chance points.
Are the Bulls this overwhelming physically? Is the Jazz this weak
mentally?

   ``I don't like to think we're mentally whipped,'' Coach Jerry
Sloan said. ``I don't like it when others are making celebration
plans and we're not invited, either. I'd like to see us fight a
little bit more. If we've got to commit 40 fouls, let's do it. I
don't deny they've outworked us. I'd like to lie, but it's a sad
commentary when we have to say we didn't work as hard as they
did.''

   There is still time. One more game for Malone and Stockton to
assert themselves in the closing moments. One more chance for the
Jazz to combat the Bulls' defense. But there is a sense that the
Bulls' desire to end their dynasty on their own stage may far
outweigh the Jazz players' desperation to take this series back to
Utah.

   ``We'd love to get this thing done here, in Chicago,'' Jordan
said. ``To end a long and grueling season. We anticipated being
where we are right now from Day 1, but there were a lot of things
that happened during the course of the year. If this so happens to
be the last dance, then why not do it in front of our fans?''

   If they do, this may be a wrap for the Bulls' long-running
series. Maybe. &QL;
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 By SELENA ROBERTS    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   CHICAGO _ There is a certain series-ending feel about Friday
night. If the cast of stars and oddball sidekicks who have made up
the Bulls' dramatic run must fade to black, this is where they want
to let go of their gilded era. In the warmth of their own sound
stage.

   The Bulls want to hug their sixth National Basketball
Association title in eight years and walk off into the unknown
after being drenched in adulation at the United Center.

   This is where Michael Jordan wants to embrace the partner he has
always called his little brother, Scottie Pippen, if the talented
forward should leave the nest next year in search of free-agent
wealth. And this is where Phil Jackson wants to make a grand exit
as Bulls coach for what he believes is his last season as their Zen
leader.

   A dynasty could end here. The Bulls all say so. Whether this
talk is out of leverage or reality, no one is sure. But it is that
uncertainty that left the questions leading up to Friday's Game 5
laden with nostalgia after Thursday's practice.

   And yet, the Bulls, even with a comfortable 3-1 lead in this
four-of-seven-game series, did not dare indulge themselves in the
moment to wax on about the magnitude of closing out the Utah Jazz
at home.

   ``We can't conjure emotion that's not a reality yet,'' Jackson
said. ``Who knows how we're going to feel. I may break down and cry
like a baby if we win Friday night.''

   It is the threat of losing Game 5 and sending the series back to
Salt Lake City that kept the competitive edge in Jordan's voice
Thursday. He was not ready to write off the Jazz as a team
psychologically whipped by the aura of the Bulls and physically
beaten by the intensity of Pippen's pick-and-roll defusing defense.

   ``I know they are not going to roll over and die,'' Jordan said
of John Stockton and Karl Malone. ``I see belief in their eyes. As
an opponent, we've got to take every little bit of that belief away
from them. You don't just stab them, you have to turn it once you
stick it in or they'll continue to fight. Friday is the time to do
it.''

   It is time for the Jazz to equal the Bulls' determination. The
team that entered this series with the home-court advantage and a
stockpile of confidence is one game from an unthinkable collapse
after taking Game 1.

   Stockton and Malone, where are you? This was supposed to be
their moment after 13 years of togetherness. Just the thought of
being known as a duo that vanished under pressure seems to be a
major motivation for the Jazz.

   ``You want to continue to play and fight, because the most
important thing is you have to prolong your career in this
league,'' Malone said. ``If you're known as a quitter in this
business, 27 or 28 other teams see that.''

   Most have seen a team uncharacteristically flustered by the
Bulls' defense. With Pippen roving on the court, his long arms and
quick instincts have disrupted the link between Stockton and
Malone.

   Instead of breaking out of the pick-and-roll system and bulling
his way to the basket, Malone has been inhibited by the team's
design, as well as by Dennis Rodman. In the fourth quarters of
Games 2, 3 and 4, Malone is 1 for 5, while Stockton has hit 1 of 6
shots. Even in Game 1, only one half of the combo, Stockton, was
fully functioning.

   ``This series should be over with in my opinion,'' Jazz center
Greg Foster said. ``We didn't play well enough to win in Game 1. We
just got lucky.''

   This may be a disheartening response, but it is an honest one.
The predicament of the Jazz is not just a product of a system gone
awry. The Jazz has yet to engage the Bulls in a physical battle,
exhibiting passive behavior under pressure.

   You can see it in the players' tentative jumpers and hesitance
to drive toward the basket. Perhaps the officiating can be
questioned, but the Jazz went to the free-throw line just three
times in the fourth quarter of Game 4, while the Bulls strutted
there 24 times.

   No referee can be blamed for how the Jazz has turned as soft as
pastels on the offensive boards. As a result, the Bulls got away
with shooting 37 percent in Game 4 because of second-chance points.
Are the Bulls this overwhelming physically? Is the Jazz this weak
mentally?

   ``I don't like to think we're mentally whipped,'' Coach Jerry
Sloan said. ``I don't like it when others are making celebration
plans and we're not invited, either. I'd like to see us fight a
little bit more. If we've got to commit 40 fouls, let's do it. I
don't deny they've outworked us. I'd like to lie, but it's a sad
commentary when we have to say we didn't work as hard as they
did.''

   There is still time. One more game for Malone and Stockton to
assert themselves in the closing moments. One more chance for the
Jazz to combat the Bulls' defense. But there is a sense that the
Bulls' desire to end their dynasty on their own stage may far
outweigh the Jazz players' desperation to take this series back to
Utah.

   ``We'd love to get this thing done here, in Chicago,'' Jordan
said. ``To end a long and grueling season. We anticipated being
where we are right now from Day 1, but there were a lot of things
that happened during the course of the year. If this so happens to
be the last dance, then why not do it in front of our fans?''

   If they do, this may be a wrap for the Bulls' long-running
series. Maybe. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0363 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:39 ',
			header: '
A5511 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-BUDGET-570&AMP;ADD-NYT     06-11 0674
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-BUDGET-570&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
COUNCIL POSTPONES OVERRIDE VOTE ON BUDGET VETOES 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Just hours before staging another demonstration of
its newfound political resolve, the City Council postponed plans
Thursday to override a series of vetoes by Mayor Rudolph Giuliani
that cut $196 million from the city's recently adopted $34 billion
budget.

   Council leaders said the delay reflected nothing more than a
desire to be cautious in responding to Wednesday's vetoes. They
said that after the council's 51 members had been summoned to City
Hall, they became concerned that a vote Thursday might violate
various requirements, including one to give the public 24-hour
notice of their meetings. The override vote is now set for Tuesday.

   The mayor's aides defended the cuts as trimming political pork;
the council contended that they affected youth programs, legal
services and other social programs.

   ``Since this is not a consensus budget, we want to make sure
that all the i's are dotted and all the t's are crossed,'' said
Peter Vallone, the council's speaker.

   Vallone attributed the council's hesitations to the
unprecedented circumstances surrounding this year's budget process.
Negotiations between the Republican mayor and the
Democratic-controlled council collapsed two weeks ago, and the
council unilaterally adopted a budget for the first time since
being empowered to do so by revisions to the city charter in 1989.

   ``Since it's never been tested before,'' Vallone said, ``we're
not taking any chances.''

   Meanwhile, he and Giuliani continued to parry over the future of
the New York Yankees baseball team _ an unlikely but nevertheless
primary cause for the breakdown of the budget talks between the
city's top leaders.

   The Yankees have threatened to leave Yankee Stadium, their home
in the Bronx, primarily for economic reasons, and the mayor has
proposed using tax revenues to help pay for a new stadium, possibly
on the West Side of Manhattan.

   Vallone argues that the team should remain in the Bronx, and has
called for a referendum on the mayor's plan _ one that the mayor's
office said would hurt negotiations with the Yankees and help the
speaker's gubernatorial candidacy by bringing out the vote.

   On Thursday, as the City Council was holding a public hearing on
Vallone's referendum proposal, the mayor was reiterating his plan
to block the referendum by placing a charter-related question on
the ballot, which under city law would take precedence over all
other ballot questions and block the stadium issue from being
considered this year. He has already appointed a charter-revision
commission to develop questions for that purpose.

   Still, he acknowledged that he would prefer Vallone to simply
drop his referendum proposal, in part because he expects that the
dispute will wind up in court, a process that he indicated he did
not trust completely.

   ``I'm not a fool,'' the mayor said. ``This is a city in which
the judges are largely members of the Democratic Party, and on the
state Supreme Court they're selected by the Democratic Party
chairman. They're not selected by the mayor, the governor or some
merit-appointment process.''

   When told of the mayor's comments, Vallone laughed. ``We don't
need the legislative branch; obviously, you can't trust them,'' he
joked. ``And we don't need the judicial branch; you can't trust
them. We could save a heck of a lot of money just letting him make
all of the decisions.''

   Also on Thursday, the council's political action committee began
to broadcast a radio commercial that attacked Giuliani both for his
budget cuts and for his support for a new Yankee Stadium, which
could cost up to $1 billion.

   ``Call the mayor and your council members,'' reads the
commercial's script. ``Tell them children and Little Leagues first.
Billion-dollar stadiums later. It's just that simple.''
',
			body: '


  (lb) 
 By DAN BARRY   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Just hours before staging another demonstration of
its newfound political resolve, the City Council postponed plans
Thursday to override a series of vetoes by Mayor Rudolph Giuliani
that cut $196 million from the city's recently adopted $34 billion
budget.

   Council leaders said the delay reflected nothing more than a
desire to be cautious in responding to Wednesday's vetoes. They
said that after the council's 51 members had been summoned to City
Hall, they became concerned that a vote Thursday might violate
various requirements, including one to give the public 24-hour
notice of their meetings. The override vote is now set for Tuesday.

   The mayor's aides defended the cuts as trimming political pork;
the council contended that they affected youth programs, legal
services and other social programs.

   ``Since this is not a consensus budget, we want to make sure
that all the i's are dotted and all the t's are crossed,'' said
Peter Vallone, the council's speaker.

   Vallone attributed the council's hesitations to the
unprecedented circumstances surrounding this year's budget process.
Negotiations between the Republican mayor and the
Democratic-controlled council collapsed two weeks ago, and the
council unilaterally adopted a budget for the first time since
being empowered to do so by revisions to the city charter in 1989.

   ``Since it's never been tested before,'' Vallone said, ``we're
not taking any chances.''

   Meanwhile, he and Giuliani continued to parry over the future of
the New York Yankees baseball team _ an unlikely but nevertheless
primary cause for the breakdown of the budget talks between the
city's top leaders.

   The Yankees have threatened to leave Yankee Stadium, their home
in the Bronx, primarily for economic reasons, and the mayor has
proposed using tax revenues to help pay for a new stadium, possibly
on the West Side of Manhattan.

   Vallone argues that the team should remain in the Bronx, and has
called for a referendum on the mayor's plan _ one that the mayor's
office said would hurt negotiations with the Yankees and help the
speaker's gubernatorial candidacy by bringing out the vote.

   On Thursday, as the City Council was holding a public hearing on
Vallone's referendum proposal, the mayor was reiterating his plan
to block the referendum by placing a charter-related question on
the ballot, which under city law would take precedence over all
other ballot questions and block the stadium issue from being
considered this year. He has already appointed a charter-revision
commission to develop questions for that purpose.

   Still, he acknowledged that he would prefer Vallone to simply
drop his referendum proposal, in part because he expects that the
dispute will wind up in court, a process that he indicated he did
not trust completely.

   ``I'm not a fool,'' the mayor said. ``This is a city in which
the judges are largely members of the Democratic Party, and on the
state Supreme Court they're selected by the Democratic Party
chairman. They're not selected by the mayor, the governor or some
merit-appointment process.''

   When told of the mayor's comments, Vallone laughed. ``We don't
need the legislative branch; obviously, you can't trust them,'' he
joked. ``And we don't need the judicial branch; you can't trust
them. We could save a heck of a lot of money just letting him make
all of the decisions.''

   Also on Thursday, the council's political action committee began
to broadcast a radio commercial that attacked Giuliani both for his
budget cuts and for his support for a new Yankee Stadium, which
could cost up to $1 billion.

   ``Call the mayor and your council members,'' reads the
commercial's script. ``Tell them children and Little Leagues first.
Billion-dollar stadiums later. It's just that simple.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0364 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:42 ',
			header: '
A5513 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-YUGO-STUDENTS-ART-700     06-11 0758
',
			slug: ' BC-YUGO-STUDENTS-ART-700(2TAKES)-NYT ',
			headline: '
CHILDREN OF BALKAN IMMIGRANTS SHARE STORIES OF DEATH 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ The assignment was a simple classroom exercise on
immigration, one given to every third grader at P.S. 290, the
Manhattan New School. Each child was to trace his or her family's
arrival in America.

   Some children told their family stories by drawing trees,
letting the names of relatives dangle from every branch. Others
plastered brightly colored poster board with family photos.

   But no one was prepared for 8-year-old Leonela Rodoncic's
picture. On a large white poster board, she drew a diagram with the
names and birth dates of her brother, parents and grandparents in
rectangles along the top. A second row of rectangles she reserved
for her uncle and five distant cousins. Beneath their names, she
scrawled: Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead.

   When classmates asked why so many of her relatives were dead,
Leonela offered an answer as stark as the drawing: ``There was a
war in my country,'' the former Yugoslavia.

   Stories like Leonela's are increasingly finding their way into
the Upper East Side school, where the children of Balkan immigrants
are one of the fastest-growing groups. From classrooms to the
lunchroom, in drawings and in essays, these children recount
stories of death and destruction in the former Yugoslavia.

   The children are a generation removed from the fighting, first
in Bosnia and now in the Serbian province of Kosovo. And that is
the way many of their parents want to keep it. At home, the
emphasis is on living a normal American childhood. But at school,
the tales of a war-torn land flow casually in the context of the
classroom routine.

   When Paula Rogovin, who teaches first grade, invited a guest
speaker to talk with her class about the rigors of living with a
disability, nothing illustrated the hurdles as vividly as a
7-year-old girl's tale of how a bomb in Bosnia had stolen her
teen-age aunt's eyesight and nearly wounded her mother. The girl
explained how her family had brought her aunt to the United States
to care for her.

   ``The story was so sad, but the class listened so carefully and
they showed her so much compassion afterward,'' Ms. Rogovin said.
``She really made them understand.''

   And just as their classmates typically respond matter-of-factly
to tales of war told in grade school tones, these children of
Yugoslavia start to come to terms with a history they can neither
escape nor truly understand.

   ``Before I was so sad that I don't have an uncle,'' Leonela said
recently, recalling the death three years ago of her mother's
brother, a Bosnian soldier whose body was never found. ``I told my
friends, and they said he was brave and I could play with their
uncles.''

   At many schools, such powerful accounts might be left at the
front door. But at the red brick school on East 82d Street, a wide
range of cultures and experiences cross and collide daily. The
evidence is everywhere: in the drawings and stories taped on nearly
every wall, on a bulletin board displaying the more than 30
languages spoken and on the bookshelves, where textbooks have been
banished, replaced by popular children's stories written in a host
of languages.

   Of the school's 525 students, 41 consider themselves Yugoslav,
Serbo-Croatian or ethnic Albanian. Their families began moving into
the area about six years ago, largely to keep watch over the
buildings and babies of Lenox Hill and Yorkville. While no one is
certain how large their presence is, statistics suggest it is
growing. Between 1990 and 1995, the city's department of health
reported 108 children born to native Yugoslav mothers living on the
East Side, between 59th and 96th Streets.

   Encouraging children to bring their lives and their cultures to
class is one of Principal Shelley Harwayne's unwritten rules.

   ``You can't dismiss what goes on inside the child who is
grieving for lost loved ones or the child who has to miss school to
attend a rally about their homeland and then expect that child to
do well in math and reading,'' said Ms. Harwayne, who is known
throughout the school as Shelley. ``We try to encourage our kids to
talk honestly and humanely about what happens in their lives.''

   nn

   Mixing the children's school lives and home lives is not always
a seamless proposition.

   The school is where Nazmi Oshlani hopes to create a normal
childhood for his sons, Mirgim, 10, and Luan, 8. His voice swells
as he talks about his efforts to spare them the fear and violence
that he knew growing up an Albanian in Yugoslavia.

   ``God bless the people at that school,'' said Oshlani, 38, who
works 16-hour days as a building engineer. ``They teach my boys how
to grow up normal, not afraid somebody is going to beat them or
kill them. I don't want them to know what I know.''

   One thing he is coming to understand is how hard it is to shield
them from what he knows.

   Thinking it would help the boys with school, he bought a home
computer last year. At first, they used it for homework and to play
video games. Then two months ago, they wandered onto the Internet
searching for information about relatives in Kosovo, where Serbian
soldiers are fighting Albanian separatists. Since March, at least
250 people have been killed. On one Web page, the boys found more
than they had expected _ pictures of soldiers slitting the throats
of children who looked a lot like them. Concerned about their
cousins, they rushed to show their discovery to their father.

   The family computer has been locked away in a closet ever since.

   ``Every day they want to talk about it,'' said Oshlani, who now
rarely allows the boys to talk to relatives in Kosovo and has also
stopped bringing home newspapers about his homeland. ``They try to
listen to the news. They ask what will happen to their cousins in
Kosovo, why they can't go to school and learn like they do.''

   Oshlani has yielded to their curiosity only twice. Last summer
he allowed them to travel with their mother to Kosovo for a month.
And in March, after fighting broke out in Kosovo, the boys joined
their mother at a protest in New York.

   The boys talked with classmates and teachers about their
adventures for weeks. Back at home, Oshlani said, they wrote
stories and drew pictures, imagining what it would be like to live
in Kosovo instead of the Upper East Side.

   ``It's so different in our country,'' Mirgim said. ``You can
find any animal you can imagine in the streets, and the ketchup
tastes so weird.''

   ``But,'' Luan added, ``you can't get mail and they kill little
kids. It makes me so sad.''

   While most of these children do not have a firsthand experience
of war, some experts contend that growing up in a home where the
conversations usually turn to the war can be as troubling as having
witnessed the death and destruction.

   ``They carry around a tremendous sense of loss and turmoil
because they watch their parents in pain and they hear every day
what it did to their families,'' said Noreen Garmen, co-director of
the University of Pittsburgh's Institute for International Studies
in Education. ``Many parents don't realize all the confusion it
creates for the children, how they are supposed to deal with
feelings that many adults can't overcome.''

   Ms. Garmen spent two and a half years teaching Bosnian educators
how to use art and drama to reconnect with children traumatized by
the war.

   She said the confusion can intensify at school.

   ``There is a tendency to think these children's problems will be
solved by teaching them to celebrate various other cultures, but
the irony is that while they are being celebrated at school they go
home and listen to their parents take sides.''

   When Vildana Rodoncic's brother was killed three years ago
fighting as a Bosnian soldier, her only joy came from looking into
the faces of her daughter, Leonela, and her son, Yasmine. But even
around them she wept, cursing his killers with every breath.

   It was not until she got a call from her son's kindergarten
teacher that she realized he had taken her pain to school. The
teacher wanted to know why the boy was so angry and why he had
begun to yell out the words, ``I hate Serbians.''

   ``He would see me cry all the time for my brother when we watch
the news reports,'' Mrs. Rodoncic said.

   It took months to convince her son that she did not hate
Serbians and that he should not hate them either. At the time, he
had begun to draw pictures of burning homes and men dressed as
soldiers massacring a man who was supposed to represent his uncle.

   ``I try to tell him that I am angry Serbians killed my brother,
but I don't hate Serbian people,'' Mrs. Rodoncic said. ``It's not
all Serbian people's fault.''

   Finally, she took him to Yugoslavia. ``On the streets,'' she
said, ``I try to show him Serbian people and I say, `See Yasmine,
they are the same like we are.'''

   Yasmine's outbursts eventually ceased, and so did questions from
classmates who wanted to know why Mrs. Rodoncic dressed in a white
gown and veil, the traditional mourning garb of some Muslim women.

   Like many of their classmates, Leonela and Yasmine are usually
eager to share what they have learned about ``our country.''

   But their confusion is sometimes as evident as their pride.

   ``My dad is from Yugoslavia and my mom is from Bosnia,'' said
Yasmine, trying to unravel his family's tangled roots.

   ``Yasmine, don't say that,'' Leonela said, first in
Serbo-Croatian, then again in English. ``It's all the same place.''

   Yasmine responded: ``Then how come there was war in Bosnia and
no war in Yugoslavia?''

   Watching his smile dissolve into a scowl, an exasperated Leonela
said: ``I don't know, Yasmine. But I told you, we are all the
same.''

   &QL;
',
			body: '


  (ART ADV: Photo is being sent to NYT photo clients. Non-subscribers
can make individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(JT) 
 By NICHOLE M. CHRISTIAN    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ The assignment was a simple classroom exercise on
immigration, one given to every third grader at P.S. 290, the
Manhattan New School. Each child was to trace his or her family's
arrival in America.

   Some children told their family stories by drawing trees,
letting the names of relatives dangle from every branch. Others
plastered brightly colored poster board with family photos.

   But no one was prepared for 8-year-old Leonela Rodoncic's
picture. On a large white poster board, she drew a diagram with the
names and birth dates of her brother, parents and grandparents in
rectangles along the top. A second row of rectangles she reserved
for her uncle and five distant cousins. Beneath their names, she
scrawled: Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead.

   When classmates asked why so many of her relatives were dead,
Leonela offered an answer as stark as the drawing: ``There was a
war in my country,'' the former Yugoslavia.

   Stories like Leonela's are increasingly finding their way into
the Upper East Side school, where the children of Balkan immigrants
are one of the fastest-growing groups. From classrooms to the
lunchroom, in drawings and in essays, these children recount
stories of death and destruction in the former Yugoslavia.

   The children are a generation removed from the fighting, first
in Bosnia and now in the Serbian province of Kosovo. And that is
the way many of their parents want to keep it. At home, the
emphasis is on living a normal American childhood. But at school,
the tales of a war-torn land flow casually in the context of the
classroom routine.

   When Paula Rogovin, who teaches first grade, invited a guest
speaker to talk with her class about the rigors of living with a
disability, nothing illustrated the hurdles as vividly as a
7-year-old girl's tale of how a bomb in Bosnia had stolen her
teen-age aunt's eyesight and nearly wounded her mother. The girl
explained how her family had brought her aunt to the United States
to care for her.

   ``The story was so sad, but the class listened so carefully and
they showed her so much compassion afterward,'' Ms. Rogovin said.
``She really made them understand.''

   And just as their classmates typically respond matter-of-factly
to tales of war told in grade school tones, these children of
Yugoslavia start to come to terms with a history they can neither
escape nor truly understand.

   ``Before I was so sad that I don't have an uncle,'' Leonela said
recently, recalling the death three years ago of her mother's
brother, a Bosnian soldier whose body was never found. ``I told my
friends, and they said he was brave and I could play with their
uncles.''

   At many schools, such powerful accounts might be left at the
front door. But at the red brick school on East 82d Street, a wide
range of cultures and experiences cross and collide daily. The
evidence is everywhere: in the drawings and stories taped on nearly
every wall, on a bulletin board displaying the more than 30
languages spoken and on the bookshelves, where textbooks have been
banished, replaced by popular children's stories written in a host
of languages.

   Of the school's 525 students, 41 consider themselves Yugoslav,
Serbo-Croatian or ethnic Albanian. Their families began moving into
the area about six years ago, largely to keep watch over the
buildings and babies of Lenox Hill and Yorkville. While no one is
certain how large their presence is, statistics suggest it is
growing. Between 1990 and 1995, the city's department of health
reported 108 children born to native Yugoslav mothers living on the
East Side, between 59th and 96th Streets.

   Encouraging children to bring their lives and their cultures to
class is one of Principal Shelley Harwayne's unwritten rules.

   ``You can't dismiss what goes on inside the child who is
grieving for lost loved ones or the child who has to miss school to
attend a rally about their homeland and then expect that child to
do well in math and reading,'' said Ms. Harwayne, who is known
throughout the school as Shelley. ``We try to encourage our kids to
talk honestly and humanely about what happens in their lives.''

   nn

   Mixing the children's school lives and home lives is not always
a seamless proposition.

   The school is where Nazmi Oshlani hopes to create a normal
childhood for his sons, Mirgim, 10, and Luan, 8. His voice swells
as he talks about his efforts to spare them the fear and violence
that he knew growing up an Albanian in Yugoslavia.

   ``God bless the people at that school,'' said Oshlani, 38, who
works 16-hour days as a building engineer. ``They teach my boys how
to grow up normal, not afraid somebody is going to beat them or
kill them. I don't want them to know what I know.''

   One thing he is coming to understand is how hard it is to shield
them from what he knows.

   Thinking it would help the boys with school, he bought a home
computer last year. At first, they used it for homework and to play
video games. Then two months ago, they wandered onto the Internet
searching for information about relatives in Kosovo, where Serbian
soldiers are fighting Albanian separatists. Since March, at least
250 people have been killed. On one Web page, the boys found more
than they had expected _ pictures of soldiers slitting the throats
of children who looked a lot like them. Concerned about their
cousins, they rushed to show their discovery to their father.

   The family computer has been locked away in a closet ever since.

   ``Every day they want to talk about it,'' said Oshlani, who now
rarely allows the boys to talk to relatives in Kosovo and has also
stopped bringing home newspapers about his homeland. ``They try to
listen to the news. They ask what will happen to their cousins in
Kosovo, why they can't go to school and learn like they do.''

   Oshlani has yielded to their curiosity only twice. Last summer
he allowed them to travel with their mother to Kosovo for a month.
And in March, after fighting broke out in Kosovo, the boys joined
their mother at a protest in New York.

   The boys talked with classmates and teachers about their
adventures for weeks. Back at home, Oshlani said, they wrote
stories and drew pictures, imagining what it would be like to live
in Kosovo instead of the Upper East Side.

   ``It's so different in our country,'' Mirgim said. ``You can
find any animal you can imagine in the streets, and the ketchup
tastes so weird.''

   ``But,'' Luan added, ``you can't get mail and they kill little
kids. It makes me so sad.''

   While most of these children do not have a firsthand experience
of war, some experts contend that growing up in a home where the
conversations usually turn to the war can be as troubling as having
witnessed the death and destruction.

   ``They carry around a tremendous sense of loss and turmoil
because they watch their parents in pain and they hear every day
what it did to their families,'' said Noreen Garmen, co-director of
the University of Pittsburgh's Institute for International Studies
in Education. ``Many parents don't realize all the confusion it
creates for the children, how they are supposed to deal with
feelings that many adults can't overcome.''

   Ms. Garmen spent two and a half years teaching Bosnian educators
how to use art and drama to reconnect with children traumatized by
the war.

   She said the confusion can intensify at school.

   ``There is a tendency to think these children's problems will be
solved by teaching them to celebrate various other cultures, but
the irony is that while they are being celebrated at school they go
home and listen to their parents take sides.''

   When Vildana Rodoncic's brother was killed three years ago
fighting as a Bosnian soldier, her only joy came from looking into
the faces of her daughter, Leonela, and her son, Yasmine. But even
around them she wept, cursing his killers with every breath.

   It was not until she got a call from her son's kindergarten
teacher that she realized he had taken her pain to school. The
teacher wanted to know why the boy was so angry and why he had
begun to yell out the words, ``I hate Serbians.''

   ``He would see me cry all the time for my brother when we watch
the news reports,'' Mrs. Rodoncic said.

   It took months to convince her son that she did not hate
Serbians and that he should not hate them either. At the time, he
had begun to draw pictures of burning homes and men dressed as
soldiers massacring a man who was supposed to represent his uncle.

   ``I try to tell him that I am angry Serbians killed my brother,
but I don't hate Serbian people,'' Mrs. Rodoncic said. ``It's not
all Serbian people's fault.''

   Finally, she took him to Yugoslavia. ``On the streets,'' she
said, ``I try to show him Serbian people and I say, `See Yasmine,
they are the same like we are.'''

   Yasmine's outbursts eventually ceased, and so did questions from
classmates who wanted to know why Mrs. Rodoncic dressed in a white
gown and veil, the traditional mourning garb of some Muslim women.

   Like many of their classmates, Leonela and Yasmine are usually
eager to share what they have learned about ``our country.''

   But their confusion is sometimes as evident as their pride.

   ``My dad is from Yugoslavia and my mom is from Bosnia,'' said
Yasmine, trying to unravel his family's tangled roots.

   ``Yasmine, don't say that,'' Leonela said, first in
Serbo-Croatian, then again in English. ``It's all the same place.''

   Yasmine responded: ``Then how come there was war in Bosnia and
no war in Yugoslavia?''

   Watching his smile dissolve into a scowl, an exasperated Leonela
said: ``I don't know, Yasmine. But I told you, we are all the
same.''

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0366 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:44 ',
			header: '
A5516 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-1STLD-WR     06-11 0875
',
			slug: ' BC-SOC-WORLDCUP-1STLD-WRITETHRU-NYT ',
			headline: '
ITALY, BEHIND LATE BAGGIO GOAL, RALLIES TO TIE CHILE, 2-2  
(JT)
',
			trailer: '
   BORDEAUX, France _ Two formerly exiled forces collided Thursday,
releasing pent-up energy and expectations on the second day of the
1998 World Cup.

   Chile, banned from the 1990 World Cup and unable to qualify for
the two surrounding Cups, made a memorable return with a 2-2 draw
with Italy.

   The other exile was Roberto Baggio, dropped from the Italian
team for much of the last four years. He made a stirring return
with a nifty early assist and a late penalty-kick goal that saved
the evening for Italy.

   Chile should have been happy with the grief it caused Italy, as
both teams came out with 1 point in a group that also includes
Cameroon and Austria, which also tied Thursday, 1-1, on a late goal
by the Austrians. The South Americans dominated the game behind the
Za-Sa Show of Ivan Zamorano and Marcelo Salas, a more cohesive
offensive tandem than anything the Italians could produce.

   The two Chilean forwards demonstrated why they are paid the big
bucks, or rather the large lira, to play in Italy. The powerful
Zamorano has already made his mark at Inter of Milan, while the
silky Salas is moving from River Plate of Argentina to Lazio of
Rome.

   The two scored 23 goals between them in Chile's qualifying
games, and they kept up the pressure Thursday, as sharp rain
showers and gusts of wind blasted through, churning the wide
Garonne River into a muddy froth.

   This was Chile's first World Cup game since 1982, when a
promising squad was eliminated after three straight losses to
Germany, Austria and Algeria. Chile was banned from the World Cup
after the entire team walked off the field while Chile was losing
to Brazil in a 1989 qualifying game. Chile's goalkeeper, Roberto
Rojas, faked an injury after a flare or firecracker landed in the
vicinity of the goal.

   Thursday, the nation came back, although Baggio was also making
a comeback of a personal nature. After saving Italy with creative
and timely goals in the 1994 World Cup, Baggio missed the penalty
kick in the shootout that gave the championship to Brazil. That set
off a whiff of failure that wound up with Baggio's being dropped
from the national squad by the previous coach, the mysterious
Arrigo Sacchi, and Baggio also changed clubs from Juventus to AC
Milan to Bologna.

   This spring, Cesare Maldini, the coach, was secure enough to
bring Baggio back, and when Alessandro DelPiero injured his thigh
muscle and could not play, Baggio was named to start.

   The introverted little star, once known as Il Divino Codino _
the Divine Ponytail _ has long since cut off the hank of hair,
making him seem somewhat less exotic and fragile. He played a vital
90 minutes Thursday.

   Maldini's faith paid off in the 10th minute. Paolo Maldini, the
coach's son, lofted a long supple pass that caught Baggio in full
stride down the left side. The slender artist controlled the ball
and flicked a left-footed pass to the center, a perfect lead for
Christian Vieri, who knocked the ball home.

   Italy held off the Za-Sa show for a long time, but seemingly got
distracted. Dino Baggio, no relation to Roberto, tried a booming
35-yard shot in extra time rather than hold the ball. Chile came
downfield and scored at three minutes of injury time, as Zamorano
made a nice header pass to Pedro Reyes, who fed Salas for the tying
goal that haunted Italy's trudge to the lockers at halftime.

   ``We started off well, then slacked off in the 48th minute, and
what's more we were punished for it,'' Cesare Maldini said. ``We
came back on the pitch fearing the worst and it took a while to
find our feet.''

   The letdown hurt Italy as Salas outleaped the defense for a
header goal five minutes into the second half. The Za-Sa Show kept
Italy distracted late into the game, but just as he had against
Nigeria and Spain and Bulgaria in 1994, Baggio saved the day.

   In the 85th minute, Baggio dribbled the ball on the right side
and chipped the ball toward the defender, Ronaldo Fuentes _ or
rather toward the right arm of Fuentes, hitting him well below the
shoulder. The rules say a handball must be intentional, and it is
quite possible that the only intent on the play came from the wily
Baggio, but the referee called a penalty kick for Italy.

   Baggio, whose last major penalty kick for Italy had ended so
brutally, did not miss this time, and the match was tied. For what
it's worth, Fuentes said he did not touch the ball on purpose.

   In the final minutes, both Zamorano and Salas were hammered to
the ground by two Italian defenders, Alessandro Nesta of Lazio and
Fabio Cannavaro of Parma. The Chilean fans whistled angrily, and
somebody knocked down a barrier in front of the Chilean bench,
although it was not as bad as the so-called Battle of Santiago
between these two nations during the 1962 World Cup in Chile, when
players were ejected for fighting. This time, both squads mingled
after the final whistle, and applauded the crowd. For both teams,
the oppressive mood of exile was over.

   &QL; 
NYT-06-11-98 1554EDT &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (Eds.: Adds score of second game in 4th graf)   By GEORGE VECSEY    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   BORDEAUX, France _ Two formerly exiled forces collided Thursday,
releasing pent-up energy and expectations on the second day of the
1998 World Cup.

   Chile, banned from the 1990 World Cup and unable to qualify for
the two surrounding Cups, made a memorable return with a 2-2 draw
with Italy.

   The other exile was Roberto Baggio, dropped from the Italian
team for much of the last four years. He made a stirring return
with a nifty early assist and a late penalty-kick goal that saved
the evening for Italy.

   Chile should have been happy with the grief it caused Italy, as
both teams came out with 1 point in a group that also includes
Cameroon and Austria, which also tied Thursday, 1-1, on a late goal
by the Austrians. The South Americans dominated the game behind the
Za-Sa Show of Ivan Zamorano and Marcelo Salas, a more cohesive
offensive tandem than anything the Italians could produce.

   The two Chilean forwards demonstrated why they are paid the big
bucks, or rather the large lira, to play in Italy. The powerful
Zamorano has already made his mark at Inter of Milan, while the
silky Salas is moving from River Plate of Argentina to Lazio of
Rome.

   The two scored 23 goals between them in Chile's qualifying
games, and they kept up the pressure Thursday, as sharp rain
showers and gusts of wind blasted through, churning the wide
Garonne River into a muddy froth.

   This was Chile's first World Cup game since 1982, when a
promising squad was eliminated after three straight losses to
Germany, Austria and Algeria. Chile was banned from the World Cup
after the entire team walked off the field while Chile was losing
to Brazil in a 1989 qualifying game. Chile's goalkeeper, Roberto
Rojas, faked an injury after a flare or firecracker landed in the
vicinity of the goal.

   Thursday, the nation came back, although Baggio was also making
a comeback of a personal nature. After saving Italy with creative
and timely goals in the 1994 World Cup, Baggio missed the penalty
kick in the shootout that gave the championship to Brazil. That set
off a whiff of failure that wound up with Baggio's being dropped
from the national squad by the previous coach, the mysterious
Arrigo Sacchi, and Baggio also changed clubs from Juventus to AC
Milan to Bologna.

   This spring, Cesare Maldini, the coach, was secure enough to
bring Baggio back, and when Alessandro DelPiero injured his thigh
muscle and could not play, Baggio was named to start.

   The introverted little star, once known as Il Divino Codino _
the Divine Ponytail _ has long since cut off the hank of hair,
making him seem somewhat less exotic and fragile. He played a vital
90 minutes Thursday.

   Maldini's faith paid off in the 10th minute. Paolo Maldini, the
coach's son, lofted a long supple pass that caught Baggio in full
stride down the left side. The slender artist controlled the ball
and flicked a left-footed pass to the center, a perfect lead for
Christian Vieri, who knocked the ball home.

   Italy held off the Za-Sa show for a long time, but seemingly got
distracted. Dino Baggio, no relation to Roberto, tried a booming
35-yard shot in extra time rather than hold the ball. Chile came
downfield and scored at three minutes of injury time, as Zamorano
made a nice header pass to Pedro Reyes, who fed Salas for the tying
goal that haunted Italy's trudge to the lockers at halftime.

   ``We started off well, then slacked off in the 48th minute, and
what's more we were punished for it,'' Cesare Maldini said. ``We
came back on the pitch fearing the worst and it took a while to
find our feet.''

   The letdown hurt Italy as Salas outleaped the defense for a
header goal five minutes into the second half. The Za-Sa Show kept
Italy distracted late into the game, but just as he had against
Nigeria and Spain and Bulgaria in 1994, Baggio saved the day.

   In the 85th minute, Baggio dribbled the ball on the right side
and chipped the ball toward the defender, Ronaldo Fuentes _ or
rather toward the right arm of Fuentes, hitting him well below the
shoulder. The rules say a handball must be intentional, and it is
quite possible that the only intent on the play came from the wily
Baggio, but the referee called a penalty kick for Italy.

   Baggio, whose last major penalty kick for Italy had ended so
brutally, did not miss this time, and the match was tied. For what
it's worth, Fuentes said he did not touch the ball on purpose.

   In the final minutes, both Zamorano and Salas were hammered to
the ground by two Italian defenders, Alessandro Nesta of Lazio and
Fabio Cannavaro of Parma. The Chilean fans whistled angrily, and
somebody knocked down a barrier in front of the Chilean bench,
although it was not as bad as the so-called Battle of Santiago
between these two nations during the 1962 World Cup in Chile, when
players were ejected for fighting. This time, both squads mingled
after the final whistle, and applauded the crowd. For both teams,
the oppressive mood of exile was over.

   &QL; 
NYT-06-11-98 1554EDT &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0367 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:45 ',
			header: '
A5517 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-DEATH-PENALTY-300&AMP;     06-11 0674
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-DEATH-PENALTY-300&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
N.Y. GOVERNOR VOWS TO STRENGTHEN DEATH PENALTY LAW 
',
			trailer: '
   ALBANY, N.Y. _ Gov. George Pataki, who was elected four years
ago after pledging to reinstate the death penalty, rekindled the
issue Thursday, introducing legislation intended to strengthen the
capital punishment law that he signed after he took office.

   Pataki's bill would increase the categories of murder that are
punishable by death, give prosecutors greater ability to introduce
a murder defendant's history of violence, and, for the first time
in New York, allow the relatives of victims to address the court
during the sentencing phase of a trial.

   In a two-page statement his office released Thursday afternoon,
the governor said his proposal would help make New York's streets
safer and would build on what he described as his successes in
reducing violent crime in the state.

   ``One of my first acts as governor was to sign the death penalty
into law,'' he said, touching on what has become a major theme as
he campaigns for re-election this year. ``As that success
continues, we must continue to do even more.''

   Pataki's proposal drew a skeptical response from his rivals in
the Democratic-controlled Assembly, who said the current death
penalty law was more than adequate and did not need any changes.

   Patricia Lynch, a spokeswoman for Assembly Speaker Sheldon
Silver, said she doubted that the governor was serious about
passing the legislation, noting that he waited until there was only
a week left in the current legislative session to introduce the
proposal.

   ``We already have a death penalty law in New York state,'' she
said. ``This is a political document. If this was anything more
than a political document, he would have submitted it back in
January before he was an announced candidate for governor.''

   Pataki, a Republican, fulfilled one of his central campaign
pledges when he signed a death penalty bill into law in 1995 during
his first year in office. Its enactment made New York the 38th
state with capital punishment and reinstated the death penalty in
New York for the first time since 1977 when the state's highest
court ruled the previous death penalty law unconstitutional.

   Every year since the court decision, the Legislature approved
death penalty bills, only to see them vetoed by Pataki's Democratic
predecessors, Govs. Hugh Carey and Mario Cuomo.

   The law enacted under Pataki makes about 10 categories of murder
punishable by death through lethal injection. The widest category
includes murders committed during other violent crimes like rape,
robbery or kidnapping. The death penalty can also be sought in
cases involving serial or contract killings, murder of judges,
murders involving torture, and the murder of police officers and
prison guards who are on duty.

   The bill proposed by Pataki would expand the number of capital
crimes. For example, his bill would cover murders committed to
collect an inheritance or money from a life insurance policy. Other
capital crimes would include gang-initiation murders and murders
committed after a long period of torture meant to exact information
from a victim.

   The bill would also allow evidence to be introduced during
sentencing that details the impact that a killing has had on a
victim's friends and family. Now, New York is the only state with a
death penalty that does not permit such evidence to be introduced
during sentencing phase of the trial.

   The legislation would also eliminate a provision in the current
law that allows a judge to give a convicted murderer a minimum of
20 years in prison in instances when a jury cannot reach a
unanimous decision on whether to impose the death penalty or a
sentence of imprisonment for life. The bill would require the judge
to impose a sentence of life imprisonment when a jury cannot reach
a unanimous decision on a penalty.
',
			body: '


   (bl)  
 By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   ALBANY, N.Y. _ Gov. George Pataki, who was elected four years
ago after pledging to reinstate the death penalty, rekindled the
issue Thursday, introducing legislation intended to strengthen the
capital punishment law that he signed after he took office.

   Pataki's bill would increase the categories of murder that are
punishable by death, give prosecutors greater ability to introduce
a murder defendant's history of violence, and, for the first time
in New York, allow the relatives of victims to address the court
during the sentencing phase of a trial.

   In a two-page statement his office released Thursday afternoon,
the governor said his proposal would help make New York's streets
safer and would build on what he described as his successes in
reducing violent crime in the state.

   ``One of my first acts as governor was to sign the death penalty
into law,'' he said, touching on what has become a major theme as
he campaigns for re-election this year. ``As that success
continues, we must continue to do even more.''

   Pataki's proposal drew a skeptical response from his rivals in
the Democratic-controlled Assembly, who said the current death
penalty law was more than adequate and did not need any changes.

   Patricia Lynch, a spokeswoman for Assembly Speaker Sheldon
Silver, said she doubted that the governor was serious about
passing the legislation, noting that he waited until there was only
a week left in the current legislative session to introduce the
proposal.

   ``We already have a death penalty law in New York state,'' she
said. ``This is a political document. If this was anything more
than a political document, he would have submitted it back in
January before he was an announced candidate for governor.''

   Pataki, a Republican, fulfilled one of his central campaign
pledges when he signed a death penalty bill into law in 1995 during
his first year in office. Its enactment made New York the 38th
state with capital punishment and reinstated the death penalty in
New York for the first time since 1977 when the state's highest
court ruled the previous death penalty law unconstitutional.

   Every year since the court decision, the Legislature approved
death penalty bills, only to see them vetoed by Pataki's Democratic
predecessors, Govs. Hugh Carey and Mario Cuomo.

   The law enacted under Pataki makes about 10 categories of murder
punishable by death through lethal injection. The widest category
includes murders committed during other violent crimes like rape,
robbery or kidnapping. The death penalty can also be sought in
cases involving serial or contract killings, murder of judges,
murders involving torture, and the murder of police officers and
prison guards who are on duty.

   The bill proposed by Pataki would expand the number of capital
crimes. For example, his bill would cover murders committed to
collect an inheritance or money from a life insurance policy. Other
capital crimes would include gang-initiation murders and murders
committed after a long period of torture meant to exact information
from a victim.

   The bill would also allow evidence to be introduced during
sentencing that details the impact that a killing has had on a
victim's friends and family. Now, New York is the only state with a
death penalty that does not permit such evidence to be introduced
during sentencing phase of the trial.

   The legislation would also eliminate a provision in the current
law that allows a judge to give a convicted murderer a minimum of
20 years in prison in instances when a jury cannot reach a
unanimous decision on whether to impose the death penalty or a
sentence of imprisonment for life. The bill would require the judge
to impose a sentence of life imprisonment when a jury cannot reach
a unanimous decision on a penalty.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0368 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:46 ',
			header: '
A5519 &Cx1f; taf-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ELIMINATE-CHILD-LABOR     06-11 0034
',
			slug: ' BC-ELIMINATE-CHILD-LABOR-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   (pr) &QL;

   &UR; EDITORS: &LR;

   CHILD-LABOR (Geneva) will not move in tonight's New York Times
News Service file.

   N.Y.Times News Service, June 11.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   (pr) &QL;

   &UR; EDITORS: &LR;

   CHILD-LABOR (Geneva) will not move in tonight's New York Times
News Service file.

   N.Y.Times News Service, June 11.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0369 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:47 ',
			header: '
A5520 &Cx1f; taf-z
s f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE-AR     06-11 0846
',
			slug: ' BC-ABOUT-CARS-PORSCHE-ART-$ADV14-2TAKES-NYT ',
			headline: '
1999 PORSCHE 911: COOLED BY WATER, STILL A LIGHTNING BOLT  
 (FOR RELEASE SUNDAY, JUNE 14) 
',
			trailer: '
   PORTLAND, Ore. _ Porsche 911s have always been superior sports
cars despite their quirks, with capable handling and rocket-like
speed. This year, as Porsche marks the 50th anniversary of its
first car, it has reinvented itself by remaking its 34-year-old
flagship.

   As it set about to remake the 911 completely for the first time
since the car bowed in 1965, the company faced the challenge that
confronts all exotic-car makers in the modern world: making these
race-bred machines as user-friendly as possible for daily duties
without losing the hard-edged, live-wire feeling of responsiveness
that got them their reputation in the first place.

   The all-new 1999 911 _ known internally and among the
cognoscenti as the 996 series _ breaks a lot of new ground for
Porsche. Aside from a sleeker body, the 911 now has an engine
cooled by water, not air; a new chassis and suspension, and a
redesigned interior.

   The wheelbase is 3.2 inches longer, the overall length has
increased by 6.7 inches and the width is up by 1.2 inches. A
six-speed manual gearbox is standard, and a five-speed Tiptronic _
it can be shifted like a manual, without a clutch _ is optional. &QL;

   Water cooling permits more precise control of engine temperature
and emissions, and it allowed Porsche to introduce four-valve
cylinder heads for the first time in a 911 production car. The
four-valve design allows for a more powerful engine that produces
296 horsepower at 6,800 rpm and 258 foot-pounds of torque at 4,600
rpm.

   While the shape of the new 911 evokes memories of previous
models, the design is cleaner and better thought-out than that of
its predecessors, which came to be adorned with boy-racer fender
flares and outlandish ``whale tail'' rear spoilers to counteract
the shortcomings of the dated chassis and the air-cooled engine. By
using front-mounted radiators and a new five-link rear suspension,
these problems are solved.

   There are two models, the Carrera Coupe, with a base price of
$65,795, and the Carrera Cabriolet, a convertible, at $75,225.
Porsche says future variations will include a turbo-charged engine
and all-wheel drive.

   The original German-built 911 evolved with a variety of engine
sizes and chassis, although always with its trademark air-cooled,
rear-engine configuration and stark, purposeful interiors.
``Everything you need and nothing more,'' enthusiasts would say.

   If what you need is the capability to travel at three times the
old 55 mile-an-hour limit with relative confidence and comfort, the
latest 911 is just the ticket.

   During a press introduction at Portland International Raceway,
the 911 was stable, quiet and predictable at speeds up to 140 mph;
the top speed is 174 mph. Lap after lap, with no protest or drama,
the huge, ventilated brake disks hauled the car from triple-digit
speeds down to 30 mph for sharp turns in the track.

   Driven back to back with last year's air-cooled, wide-hipped 911
Carrera S, the '99 surprised and impressed. The '98 model was
substantially noisier at all engine speeds, and its handling
characteristics, as good as they are, proved far inferior to the
new car's.

   The Porsche design team worked to make the exhaust sound
evocative; it still has the rasp of an air-cooled engine.

   On public roads, during a 300-mile drive around Mount Hood, the
911 was extraordinarily competent. The view from behind the wheel,
over the steeply sloping nose, is commanding and
confidence-inspiring.

   With six speeds available, it is easy to find a gear that
maximizes the acceleration available from the 3.4-liter flat-six
engine. The 911 gobbled up steep ascents through glacier-carved
valleys, descended through mountain passes at high speed without a
hint that the brakes might fade, and remained magnificently calm
and composed during tight switchbacks as well as long, sweeping
curves that could be taken at speeds far in excess of the legal
limit.

   By every measurement, on or off the track, the new 911 is
superior to the old one.

   Previous 911s were known, and feared, for the tendency of their
rear ends to swing out on curves at high speeds. This
characteristic has been completely engineered out of the new car,
which behaves as predictably as if the engine were up front.

   I had the opportunity to drive both the coupe and the cabriolet,
and one of the convertibles spent a week in household duty.
Consigned to the daily race track of shopping and child shuttling,
it performed its pedestrian duties without complaint, and our
six-year-old thought it considerate of Porsche to make the
diminutive rear seats just her size.

   nn

   Porsche expects 75 percent of its U.S. buyers to choose
cabriolets, and 25 percent coupes, exactly the opposite of the
European pattern. It's easy to understand why.

   In Europe, there are still hundreds of miles of freeways where
high-performance cars cruise routinely at 125 mph and more. In
those circumstances, the coupe _ with its better aerodynamics, more
rigid body structure and quieter interior _ is far superior to the
convertible.

   In this country, where speed limits are 75 or less _ except for
Montana, where the state only suggests that you be ``reasonable and
prudent'' _ the legal limit is achieved by the time you shift into
third gear. The 911 is going to spend most of its time using a
small percentage of its capability, as is the case with the
Corvette, Jaguar XK8, Acura NSX and other high-line sports cars. &QL;

   With the cabriolet, one can put the top down and gaze at the
scenery while poking along at 65. And, to keep driver and passenger
from getting restless at low velocity, Porsche offers an optional
trip computer with a video screen built into the dashboard.

   Using a global positioning system, it is remarkably accurate,
able to provide voice directions, video instructions, or both, to
direct you to your destination. It is part of a $3,450 option that
includes a CD-ROM unit that displays maps, a CD audio changer, a
cassette radio and an on-board computer.

   Six CDs cover the United States, and you can select either a
``most direct'' or ``avoid freeways'' preference. When traveling at
a safe-and-sane 55 mph, the trip computer is useful and even
entertaining. Of course, at the high speeds this car can reach, it
would be a dangerous distraction. &QL;

   The interior of the 911, both stylistically and ergonomically,
is its least appealing aspect. Previous 911s have had an
understated cabin and simple five-gauge layout ahead of the driver.
The new 911 is a visually confusing assemblage of multiple curves
and variegated surfaces, from brushed aluminum to leather facings.

   In a nod to tradition, the five-gauge layout is maintained, but
the gauges are crowded together. Mileage markings on the analog
speedometer are so close together as to be nearly unreadable.
Fortunately, there is also a digital speed readout at the bottom of
the centrally placed tachometer. &QL;

   Full-power air bags _ not de-powered second-generation bags _
are standard, along with side bags. A ``smart'' child's seat, with
a sensor that automatically disables the passenger-side air bag
when it is in use, is available from dealers.

   As with previous 911s, the available space is vastly superior to
that of other sports cars. There are two small folding-back jump
seats in the rear, which provide space for children, or, with the
backs folded down, a large amount of luggage. This extra carrying
capacity has always made 911s relatively family-friendly. The front
trunk provides additional storage.

   On the road, both coupe and cabriolet were extremely quiet and
comfortable at legal cruising speeds. This is a superb sports car
that lets two people and their luggage go grand touring at speed
and in style. At as-delivered prices of $70,000 to $80,000 _ the
cabriolet test car was $81,745 _ it has no direct competition.

   But like other exotic sports cars, no matter the price, most of
the 911's potential is wasted on United States roads. The driver is
reduced to watching the video screen of the trip computer for
entertainment while daydreaming of being on the Autobahn and
running the willing engine to its 7,300 rpm limit in every gear. &QL; 
 &QL;

   INSIDE TRACK: Everything you need, and a whole lot more. &QL;
',
			body: '


   (ART ADV: Graphic comparing the Acura NSX, Chevrolet Corvette,
Dodge Viper GTS and Porsche 91 Carrera will be sent to NYT graphic
clients. Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or 1927.)  
 (af)  
 By KEITH MARTIN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   PORTLAND, Ore. _ Porsche 911s have always been superior sports
cars despite their quirks, with capable handling and rocket-like
speed. This year, as Porsche marks the 50th anniversary of its
first car, it has reinvented itself by remaking its 34-year-old
flagship.

   As it set about to remake the 911 completely for the first time
since the car bowed in 1965, the company faced the challenge that
confronts all exotic-car makers in the modern world: making these
race-bred machines as user-friendly as possible for daily duties
without losing the hard-edged, live-wire feeling of responsiveness
that got them their reputation in the first place.

   The all-new 1999 911 _ known internally and among the
cognoscenti as the 996 series _ breaks a lot of new ground for
Porsche. Aside from a sleeker body, the 911 now has an engine
cooled by water, not air; a new chassis and suspension, and a
redesigned interior.

   The wheelbase is 3.2 inches longer, the overall length has
increased by 6.7 inches and the width is up by 1.2 inches. A
six-speed manual gearbox is standard, and a five-speed Tiptronic _
it can be shifted like a manual, without a clutch _ is optional. &QL;

   Water cooling permits more precise control of engine temperature
and emissions, and it allowed Porsche to introduce four-valve
cylinder heads for the first time in a 911 production car. The
four-valve design allows for a more powerful engine that produces
296 horsepower at 6,800 rpm and 258 foot-pounds of torque at 4,600
rpm.

   While the shape of the new 911 evokes memories of previous
models, the design is cleaner and better thought-out than that of
its predecessors, which came to be adorned with boy-racer fender
flares and outlandish ``whale tail'' rear spoilers to counteract
the shortcomings of the dated chassis and the air-cooled engine. By
using front-mounted radiators and a new five-link rear suspension,
these problems are solved.

   There are two models, the Carrera Coupe, with a base price of
$65,795, and the Carrera Cabriolet, a convertible, at $75,225.
Porsche says future variations will include a turbo-charged engine
and all-wheel drive.

   The original German-built 911 evolved with a variety of engine
sizes and chassis, although always with its trademark air-cooled,
rear-engine configuration and stark, purposeful interiors.
``Everything you need and nothing more,'' enthusiasts would say.

   If what you need is the capability to travel at three times the
old 55 mile-an-hour limit with relative confidence and comfort, the
latest 911 is just the ticket.

   During a press introduction at Portland International Raceway,
the 911 was stable, quiet and predictable at speeds up to 140 mph;
the top speed is 174 mph. Lap after lap, with no protest or drama,
the huge, ventilated brake disks hauled the car from triple-digit
speeds down to 30 mph for sharp turns in the track.

   Driven back to back with last year's air-cooled, wide-hipped 911
Carrera S, the '99 surprised and impressed. The '98 model was
substantially noisier at all engine speeds, and its handling
characteristics, as good as they are, proved far inferior to the
new car's.

   The Porsche design team worked to make the exhaust sound
evocative; it still has the rasp of an air-cooled engine.

   On public roads, during a 300-mile drive around Mount Hood, the
911 was extraordinarily competent. The view from behind the wheel,
over the steeply sloping nose, is commanding and
confidence-inspiring.

   With six speeds available, it is easy to find a gear that
maximizes the acceleration available from the 3.4-liter flat-six
engine. The 911 gobbled up steep ascents through glacier-carved
valleys, descended through mountain passes at high speed without a
hint that the brakes might fade, and remained magnificently calm
and composed during tight switchbacks as well as long, sweeping
curves that could be taken at speeds far in excess of the legal
limit.

   By every measurement, on or off the track, the new 911 is
superior to the old one.

   Previous 911s were known, and feared, for the tendency of their
rear ends to swing out on curves at high speeds. This
characteristic has been completely engineered out of the new car,
which behaves as predictably as if the engine were up front.

   I had the opportunity to drive both the coupe and the cabriolet,
and one of the convertibles spent a week in household duty.
Consigned to the daily race track of shopping and child shuttling,
it performed its pedestrian duties without complaint, and our
six-year-old thought it considerate of Porsche to make the
diminutive rear seats just her size.

   nn

   Porsche expects 75 percent of its U.S. buyers to choose
cabriolets, and 25 percent coupes, exactly the opposite of the
European pattern. It's easy to understand why.

   In Europe, there are still hundreds of miles of freeways where
high-performance cars cruise routinely at 125 mph and more. In
those circumstances, the coupe _ with its better aerodynamics, more
rigid body structure and quieter interior _ is far superior to the
convertible.

   In this country, where speed limits are 75 or less _ except for
Montana, where the state only suggests that you be ``reasonable and
prudent'' _ the legal limit is achieved by the time you shift into
third gear. The 911 is going to spend most of its time using a
small percentage of its capability, as is the case with the
Corvette, Jaguar XK8, Acura NSX and other high-line sports cars. &QL;

   With the cabriolet, one can put the top down and gaze at the
scenery while poking along at 65. And, to keep driver and passenger
from getting restless at low velocity, Porsche offers an optional
trip computer with a video screen built into the dashboard.

   Using a global positioning system, it is remarkably accurate,
able to provide voice directions, video instructions, or both, to
direct you to your destination. It is part of a $3,450 option that
includes a CD-ROM unit that displays maps, a CD audio changer, a
cassette radio and an on-board computer.

   Six CDs cover the United States, and you can select either a
``most direct'' or ``avoid freeways'' preference. When traveling at
a safe-and-sane 55 mph, the trip computer is useful and even
entertaining. Of course, at the high speeds this car can reach, it
would be a dangerous distraction. &QL;

   The interior of the 911, both stylistically and ergonomically,
is its least appealing aspect. Previous 911s have had an
understated cabin and simple five-gauge layout ahead of the driver.
The new 911 is a visually confusing assemblage of multiple curves
and variegated surfaces, from brushed aluminum to leather facings.

   In a nod to tradition, the five-gauge layout is maintained, but
the gauges are crowded together. Mileage markings on the analog
speedometer are so close together as to be nearly unreadable.
Fortunately, there is also a digital speed readout at the bottom of
the centrally placed tachometer. &QL;

   Full-power air bags _ not de-powered second-generation bags _
are standard, along with side bags. A ``smart'' child's seat, with
a sensor that automatically disables the passenger-side air bag
when it is in use, is available from dealers.

   As with previous 911s, the available space is vastly superior to
that of other sports cars. There are two small folding-back jump
seats in the rear, which provide space for children, or, with the
backs folded down, a large amount of luggage. This extra carrying
capacity has always made 911s relatively family-friendly. The front
trunk provides additional storage.

   On the road, both coupe and cabriolet were extremely quiet and
comfortable at legal cruising speeds. This is a superb sports car
that lets two people and their luggage go grand touring at speed
and in style. At as-delivered prices of $70,000 to $80,000 _ the
cabriolet test car was $81,745 _ it has no direct competition.

   But like other exotic sports cars, no matter the price, most of
the 911's potential is wasted on United States roads. The driver is
reduced to watching the video screen of the trip computer for
entertainment while daydreaming of being on the Autobahn and
running the willing engine to its 7,300 rpm limit in every gear. &QL; 
 &QL;

   INSIDE TRACK: Everything you need, and a whole lot more. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0371 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:48 ',
			header: '
A5522 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NYT-CORRECTIONS &LR;      06-11 0281
',
			slug: ' BC-NYT-CORRECTIONS ',
			headline: '
NEW YORK TIMES CORRECTIONS FOR FRIDAY, JUNE 12
',
			trailer: '
   BC-BKN-BULLS-JAZZ-NYT (moved on Wednesday, June 10)

   A New York Times News Service article sent on Wednesday, June
10, about the Chicago Bulls' victory over the Utah Jazz in Game 4
of the basketball finals misstated the point total for Michael
Jordan. It was 34, not 36.

   BC-TOBACCO-TRIAL-NYT (moved on Wednesday, June 10)

   A New York Times News Service article sent on Wednesday, June
10, about the awarding of punitive damages in a cigarette lawsuit
misstated restrictions on such suits in some tobacco bills pending
in Congress. Those bills would bar the awarding of punitive damages
and class-action lawsuits. They would not bar all tobacco lawsuits.

   BC-KAN-GRAIN-ELEVATOR-NYT (moved on Wednesday, June 10)

   A New York Times News Service article sent on Wednesday, June
10, about an explosion at one of the world's largest grain
elevators misstated the location. The elevator is near Wichita,
Kan., not in the city.

   BC-LOUVRE-RESTAURANT-NYT (moved on Tuesday, June 9)

   A New York Times News Service article sent on Tuesday, June 9,
about negotiations for Alice Waters, the chef and owner of Chez
Panisse in Berkeley, Calif., to open a restaurant at the Louvre in
Paris misspelled the surname of the well-known baker whom Ms.
Waters expects to advise her there. He is Lionel Poilane, not
Pouillon.
',
			body: '


  Eds.: These corrections will appear in The New York Times on
Friday. Days and dates refer to the original article's transmission
by the New York Times News Service, and may need to be adjusted by
NYT clients.)  
(gc) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   BC-BKN-BULLS-JAZZ-NYT (moved on Wednesday, June 10)

   A New York Times News Service article sent on Wednesday, June
10, about the Chicago Bulls' victory over the Utah Jazz in Game 4
of the basketball finals misstated the point total for Michael
Jordan. It was 34, not 36.

   BC-TOBACCO-TRIAL-NYT (moved on Wednesday, June 10)

   A New York Times News Service article sent on Wednesday, June
10, about the awarding of punitive damages in a cigarette lawsuit
misstated restrictions on such suits in some tobacco bills pending
in Congress. Those bills would bar the awarding of punitive damages
and class-action lawsuits. They would not bar all tobacco lawsuits.

   BC-KAN-GRAIN-ELEVATOR-NYT (moved on Wednesday, June 10)

   A New York Times News Service article sent on Wednesday, June
10, about an explosion at one of the world's largest grain
elevators misstated the location. The elevator is near Wichita,
Kan., not in the city.

   BC-LOUVRE-RESTAURANT-NYT (moved on Tuesday, June 9)

   A New York Times News Service article sent on Tuesday, June 9,
about negotiations for Alice Waters, the chef and owner of Chez
Panisse in Berkeley, Calif., to open a restaurant at the Louvre in
Paris misspelled the surname of the well-known baker whom Ms.
Waters expects to advise her there. He is Lionel Poilane, not
Pouillon.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0372 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:48 ',
			header: '
A5523 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-GOP-CONVENTION-200     06-11 0663
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-GOP-CONVENTION-2000-NYT ',
			headline: '
NYC AUDITIONS FOR GOP CONVENTION IN 2000 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ The nine tourists were showered with goody boxes and
goody baskets, goody sacks and goody gym bags _ so many goodies
they would never all fit on the planes back to New Hampshire,
Hawaii and points in between. Not to worry: the City of New York is
paying to pack the stuff and ship it home safely.

   That is because these visitors _ members of the site selection
committee of the Republican National Convention of 2000 _ could
return two years from now with 40,000 of their closest friends,
delegates, journalists, volunteers, elected officials and staff
members.

   The red carpet was quite literal, stretching 15 yards from the
parking lot to the steps of City Hall. During a two-day visit that
ended Thursday, the committee members slept at the Waldorf-Astoria
hotel and ate breakfast at the Museum of Modern Art, lunch in
Little Italy and dinner at Tavern on the Green. When they took in
the Broadway show ``The Scarlet Pimpernel,'' they met the cast.
When they took a tour in a double-decker bus, Mayor Rudolph
Giuliani was at the microphone.

   And then there were the goodies: eight-point hats from the New
York Police Department, hockey jerseys from the New York Rangers,
scarves and truffles, key chains and maps. ``We didn't have time to
shop, so they shopped for us,'' said Jan Larimer of Jackson Hole,
Wyo., the chairwoman of the selection committee.

   When they had to buckle down for a presentation on the nuts and
bolts of media, security and meeting space, it was after breakfast
at Windows on the World. Horse-drawn carriage rides were provided
in Central Park, as was transportation back to the hotel after
nightcaps at a cigar bar and the Rainbow Room.

   Republican officials said the city, long a Democratic bastion,
has a chance of snaring its first Republican convention, given the
prominence of Giuliani and Gov. George Pataki, both Republicans.
But all the wining and dining took place against a tense political
backdrop, since Giuliani has often acted independently from the
Republican Party but recently has been scrambling to make amends.

   At a news conference, Republican national chairman Jim
Nicholson, the , was asked whether the city's chances would be hurt
by Giuliani's decision in 1994 to endorse Democratic Gov. Mario
Cuomo, instead of Pataki, the Republican challenger.

   ``I'm a Catholic, and I believe in forgiveness,'' Nicholson
said.

   New York is one of eight cities being considered. The scouts
visited Philadelphia and Charlotte, N.C., last week. By early
August, they will check out Chicago, Indianapolis, Minneapolis, New
Orleans and and San Antonio.

   The Republican committee members were patiently discreet about
their leanings after their visit here, but they raved about the
city's rebound, and about Giuliani's attentiveness and
self-deprecating sense of humor. Mrs. Larimer said she was
impressed to open the shade of her hotel room at 6 a.m. and see a
whole line of shopkeepers hosing off their sidewalks.

   The committee members' itinerary, which included 50 stops
between 2 p.m. Tuesday and 6:45 Thursday night, was planned by the
city, which spent about $150,000 on the visit. Amid the fun, the
committee members sat through long briefings on hotels,
transportation and dealing with unions (no problem, the city said).

   The city has formed a 30-member Host Committee and is offering
$40 million in incentives for the convention, including $20 million
that would be raised from private sources and $20 million in city
services, including police protection and construction of a set
inside Madison Square Garden.

   The committee is expected to make a recommendation to the
Republican National Committee by Labor Day; a final decision will
be made in January.
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: N.C., Ill., Ind., Minn., La., Texas, N.Y., Wyo., N.H.,
Hawaii)   (bl)  
 By MIKE ALLEN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ The nine tourists were showered with goody boxes and
goody baskets, goody sacks and goody gym bags _ so many goodies
they would never all fit on the planes back to New Hampshire,
Hawaii and points in between. Not to worry: the City of New York is
paying to pack the stuff and ship it home safely.

   That is because these visitors _ members of the site selection
committee of the Republican National Convention of 2000 _ could
return two years from now with 40,000 of their closest friends,
delegates, journalists, volunteers, elected officials and staff
members.

   The red carpet was quite literal, stretching 15 yards from the
parking lot to the steps of City Hall. During a two-day visit that
ended Thursday, the committee members slept at the Waldorf-Astoria
hotel and ate breakfast at the Museum of Modern Art, lunch in
Little Italy and dinner at Tavern on the Green. When they took in
the Broadway show ``The Scarlet Pimpernel,'' they met the cast.
When they took a tour in a double-decker bus, Mayor Rudolph
Giuliani was at the microphone.

   And then there were the goodies: eight-point hats from the New
York Police Department, hockey jerseys from the New York Rangers,
scarves and truffles, key chains and maps. ``We didn't have time to
shop, so they shopped for us,'' said Jan Larimer of Jackson Hole,
Wyo., the chairwoman of the selection committee.

   When they had to buckle down for a presentation on the nuts and
bolts of media, security and meeting space, it was after breakfast
at Windows on the World. Horse-drawn carriage rides were provided
in Central Park, as was transportation back to the hotel after
nightcaps at a cigar bar and the Rainbow Room.

   Republican officials said the city, long a Democratic bastion,
has a chance of snaring its first Republican convention, given the
prominence of Giuliani and Gov. George Pataki, both Republicans.
But all the wining and dining took place against a tense political
backdrop, since Giuliani has often acted independently from the
Republican Party but recently has been scrambling to make amends.

   At a news conference, Republican national chairman Jim
Nicholson, the , was asked whether the city's chances would be hurt
by Giuliani's decision in 1994 to endorse Democratic Gov. Mario
Cuomo, instead of Pataki, the Republican challenger.

   ``I'm a Catholic, and I believe in forgiveness,'' Nicholson
said.

   New York is one of eight cities being considered. The scouts
visited Philadelphia and Charlotte, N.C., last week. By early
August, they will check out Chicago, Indianapolis, Minneapolis, New
Orleans and and San Antonio.

   The Republican committee members were patiently discreet about
their leanings after their visit here, but they raved about the
city's rebound, and about Giuliani's attentiveness and
self-deprecating sense of humor. Mrs. Larimer said she was
impressed to open the shade of her hotel room at 6 a.m. and see a
whole line of shopkeepers hosing off their sidewalks.

   The committee members' itinerary, which included 50 stops
between 2 p.m. Tuesday and 6:45 Thursday night, was planned by the
city, which spent about $150,000 on the visit. Amid the fun, the
committee members sat through long briefings on hotels,
transportation and dealing with unions (no problem, the city said).

   The city has formed a 30-member Host Committee and is offering
$40 million in incentives for the convention, including $20 million
that would be raised from private sources and $20 million in city
services, including police protection and construction of a set
inside Madison Square Garden.

   The committee is expected to make a recommendation to the
Republican National Committee by Labor Day; a final decision will
be made in January.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0373 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:49 ',
			header: '
A5524 &Cx1f; ttx-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HATEKILLING-EARLYRELE     06-11 0504
',
			slug: ' BC-HATEKILLING-EARLYRELEASE-TEX ',
			headline: '
ONE SUSPECT IN DRAGGING DEATH RELEASED FROM PRISON EARLY
',
			trailer: '
   AUSTIN _ One of three white men charged in the dragging death of
a black man in Jasper was released from prison last year under the
controversial mandatory early release program that Gov. George W.
Bush once vowed to end, state officials confirmed on Thursday.

   Democratic gubernatorial candidate Garry Mauro expressed
outrage, saying that had Bush fulfilled his 1994 campaign promise
to end the program, ``at least one of the Jasper three would be in
prison where he belongs.''

   But Bush spokeswoman Karen Hughes voiced her own indignation
that the Democrat would make political hay over such a tragedy.

   ``The suspect was sentenced under a previous administration,''
she said, referring to 31-year-old Lawrence Russell Brewer.
``Governor Bush has ended mandatory release for inmates sentenced
under his administration.

   ``The U.S. Supreme Court has said it is unconstitutional to end
mandatory early release retroactively. I think it's appalling to
make a political issue out of such tragedy.''

   Mauro said Bush promised voters four years ago to take a fight
against early release all the way to U.S. Supreme Court, but backed
down when a similar law was struck down in Florida last year.

   Brewer, of Sulphur Springs, is one of three men charged with the
gruesome slaying of James Byrd Jr., who had accepted a ride from
the trio, only to be beaten, chained to a pickup and dragged to his
death.

   Records from the Texas Department of Criminal Justice show that
Brewer, the oldest of the suspects, had been in and out of prison
since 1987. Had he been required serve his full sentence, he would
be in prison until 2004; instead, he was released in September
under a controversial program aimed at relieving crowding in the
state's prison system.

   In 1994, Bush criticized then-Gov. Ann Richards for allowing the
release of 7,700 prisoners during her administration. But Mauro
said that under Bush, the number of felons freed early from prison
jumped to 42,000.

   Last year, lawmakers considered legislation that would have
abolished the program retroactively so that inmates who were once
eligible for early release would no longer be considered.

   But concern over the constitutionality of such a law prompted
lawmakers and Bush to back away.

   ``It's just hypocrisy,'' Mauro said of Bush's record. The
Democrat then made a vow similar to Bush's of four years ago and
promised that, if elected, he would get legislation passed and take
any challenge to the Supreme Court.

   But Hughes said, ``If Garry Mauro believes he would be so
irresponsible as to go against the U.S. Supreme Court, then that's
another reason Texans should not want him as their governor.''

   (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide
Web: www.star-telegram.com)
',
			body: '


 (Eds: Spelling of Garry is cq) 
(For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By CARLOS SANCHEZ 
An JOHN MORITZ 
c.1997 Fort Worth Star-Telegram 

',
			paragraphs: '
   AUSTIN _ One of three white men charged in the dragging death of
a black man in Jasper was released from prison last year under the
controversial mandatory early release program that Gov. George W.
Bush once vowed to end, state officials confirmed on Thursday.

   Democratic gubernatorial candidate Garry Mauro expressed
outrage, saying that had Bush fulfilled his 1994 campaign promise
to end the program, ``at least one of the Jasper three would be in
prison where he belongs.''

   But Bush spokeswoman Karen Hughes voiced her own indignation
that the Democrat would make political hay over such a tragedy.

   ``The suspect was sentenced under a previous administration,''
she said, referring to 31-year-old Lawrence Russell Brewer.
``Governor Bush has ended mandatory release for inmates sentenced
under his administration.

   ``The U.S. Supreme Court has said it is unconstitutional to end
mandatory early release retroactively. I think it's appalling to
make a political issue out of such tragedy.''

   Mauro said Bush promised voters four years ago to take a fight
against early release all the way to U.S. Supreme Court, but backed
down when a similar law was struck down in Florida last year.

   Brewer, of Sulphur Springs, is one of three men charged with the
gruesome slaying of James Byrd Jr., who had accepted a ride from
the trio, only to be beaten, chained to a pickup and dragged to his
death.

   Records from the Texas Department of Criminal Justice show that
Brewer, the oldest of the suspects, had been in and out of prison
since 1987. Had he been required serve his full sentence, he would
be in prison until 2004; instead, he was released in September
under a controversial program aimed at relieving crowding in the
state's prison system.

   In 1994, Bush criticized then-Gov. Ann Richards for allowing the
release of 7,700 prisoners during her administration. But Mauro
said that under Bush, the number of felons freed early from prison
jumped to 42,000.

   Last year, lawmakers considered legislation that would have
abolished the program retroactively so that inmates who were once
eligible for early release would no longer be considered.

   But concern over the constitutionality of such a law prompted
lawmakers and Bush to back away.

   ``It's just hypocrisy,'' Mauro said of Bush's record. The
Democrat then made a vow similar to Bush's of four years ago and
promised that, if elected, he would get legislation passed and take
any challenge to the Supreme Court.

   But Hughes said, ``If Garry Mauro believes he would be so
irresponsible as to go against the U.S. Supreme Court, then that's
another reason Texans should not want him as their governor.''

   (Visit the Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide
Web: www.star-telegram.com)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0374 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:51 ',
			header: '
A5526 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GEN-HOFFARTH-COLUMN-L     06-11 1154
',
			slug: ' BC-GEN-HOFFARTH-COLUMN-LADN ',
			headline: '
TIME FOR PEACOCK TO PUCKER UP TO JORDAN
',
			trailer: '
   (begin ital)A note intercepted from NBC messenger Ahmad Rashad
sneaking out of the network compound at the United Center in
Chicago early this morning en route to the Michael Jordan
estate:(end ital)

   My dearest MJ:

   On behalf of NBC _ all its employees, its affiliates, its
sponsors, its accountants _ I want to take this moment to thank
you, from the bottom of our wallets, for your incredible run. Not
only that, it's been both an honor to watch you create your art and
a privilege to provide the medium by which you've accomplished your
finest work.

   Michael, you are the Michelangelo of your time.

   Now, just one last thing:

   Don't go.

   Please, don't go.

   Don't go away.

   It says here the NBA Finals could end tonight. That doesn't work
for us.

   Let's talk numbers.

   Through the first four games of these NBA Finals, we have been
bestowed an all-time high 17.5 Nielsen rating average. I'm like
you. Nielsen numbers don't mean anything to me. Except, in this
case, my job. So I have to acknowledge them.

   To put this into context, the previous four-game high was in '93
(17.1) when you guys squashed Charles Barkley and Phoenix. The
first three games of last year's Jazz-Bulls series made it to about
two million fewer homes (15.5 average).

   Very Bullish, indeed. But there's more.

   Despite trashing the Jazz in Game 3, the 16.2 rating/28 share
was the second-highest Game 3 in Finals history. We think about 52
million folks watched all or part of that one. Especially the part
when you were goofing off on the bench during the fourth quarter.
You're !ital!soooo!off! funny! (Want another guest host spot on
``Saturday Night Live''?)

   Game 4 came back with a 19.1/33 _ making it the fourth
most-watched NBA telecast in history with 58 million viewers.

   Who knew that an Adam Keefe-Luc Longley matchup could produce
such viewership?

   The network also won the week ending June 7 _ the first three
NBA Final games were the week's three top-rated shows. ``Touched by
an Angel'' was squashed by a dynasty.

   How much do you mean to us? Let us continue to count the ways.

   I pick up the latest copy of Fortune magazine _ with you on the
cover, of course, right under the Sports Illustrated, with you on
the cover, of course. Fortune makes me pay $4.95 to tell me you're
responsible for about $10 billion in our nation's economy. No
surprise.

   One thing bothered me about that story. When it tried to
determine how much you've meant to NBC, it came up with a formula _
a dollar figure _ that I'm not real comfortable with.

   Compare the ratings of the previous five NBC Finals during the
'90s that you have participated (16.3) versus the three series that
you were, ahem, absent (12.9). That's a 27 percent increase.
Applied to the $1.3 billion in rights fees we have paid this
decade, that means _ according to them _ a $366 million surplus.
That's without even factoring in this year's numbers.

   Sure, that's a lot of Wheaties. But you know what? That $366
millll (sorry, my hand shakes when i write that number) doesn't
begin to measure our relationship. Our love. The time we've spent
together. Those special moments no one can take from us...

   Maybe you can walk away from that. But I can't.

   If I'm being too dramatic, I apologize. Desperate people
sometimes do desperate things. Just look at this rival NFL deal I'm
trying to put together with, of all people, Ted Turner. 'Nough
said.

   Bottom line: This show must go on. We aren't satisfied with a
Game 6 and 7. I'll be honest. I've been talking to David Stern
about making this a best of 23 _ that's your number, right? _ and I
think we can make this the highest-rated summer replacement show in
the history of television.

   But I need more time. And I'm told I need your approval.

   If you pull a Seinfeld on us right now _ if you walk away from
this gold mine _ you're making a huge mistake.

   It's not as if you're moving on to something bigger. What are
you going to do in your free time anyway, get your own talk show?
Don't even make me bring up ``The Magic Hour'' at a time like this.

   I shouldn't have to be in this groveling position. I'm a network
executive. People grovel to me. But this should be as obvious to
you _ and all your endorsers _ as it is to us.

   In American TV, we don't quit while we're ahead. We milk every
last drop with spin-offs, reruns, syndication... guest hosting
``Saturday Night Live'' (did I mention that already?)

   MJ, after all we've done for you...

   You owe us.

   Breathlessly awaiting your reply (I'm in the limo right outside
your front gates, if you look out the door). &QL; 
_Dick Ebersol &QL; 
_Big shot, NBC Sports &QL;

   WHAT SMOKES  &QL;

   _ The Ugly American sports fan don't need no stinking World Cup
soccer when it has real football _ the World Bowl '98 (Sunday, 10
a.m., Channel 11). Fox has dispatched Tim Ryan, Ronnie Lott and
Bill Maas to Frankfurt, Germany, as the network's first three-man
football announcer booth for the World Bowl between Frankfurt and
Rhein. In true Fox fashion, World Bowl '98 will have wireless mikes
on both head coaches as well as the starting quarterbacks and
centers, plus live audio and video from the locker rooms. Just in
case you're wondering about Fox's next pitch to covering the NFL. &QL; 
_ MSNBC's Keith Olbermann , the former ``SportsCenter'' anchor who
has been one of the biggest ESPN bashers since leaving the Bristol,
Conn., satellite dish farm last year, issued an apology during his
Sportsfan Radio Network commentary Thursday. ``I had a lot of fun
on that show and a big part of me didn't want to go,'' Olbermann
admitted, ``and I wasn't mature enough to deal with it any other
way.'' &QL;

   WHAT CHOKES  &QL;

   _ It's so scripted that it's insulting, so awkward that it's
painful. Basically, it just makes you want to cry. As a talk-show
host, Magic Johnson is one of the greatest players in NBA history.
There's a new commercial with Magic laying on the beach saying,
``With the American Express card, you can be anything you like.''
Not quite. ``The Tragic Hour'' has no magic, no matter what any of
Hollywood's best special-effects artists can produce. So far,
critics have gone relatively easy on the ex-Lakers star mugging for
the camera and pretending to interview celebs who once applauded
his work. We'd all like to see him succeed. But someone has to
prevent him from embarrassing himself any more. One of his yes-men
must see that. One week in, he's given radio show hosts like Howard
Stern fodder for months. This proposed transformation of a sports
icon into the next Arsenio Hall

   must be declared an unnatural disaster before the White House
sends public funds in to clean up the mess.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By TOM HOFFARTH  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   (begin ital)A note intercepted from NBC messenger Ahmad Rashad
sneaking out of the network compound at the United Center in
Chicago early this morning en route to the Michael Jordan
estate:(end ital)

   My dearest MJ:

   On behalf of NBC _ all its employees, its affiliates, its
sponsors, its accountants _ I want to take this moment to thank
you, from the bottom of our wallets, for your incredible run. Not
only that, it's been both an honor to watch you create your art and
a privilege to provide the medium by which you've accomplished your
finest work.

   Michael, you are the Michelangelo of your time.

   Now, just one last thing:

   Don't go.

   Please, don't go.

   Don't go away.

   It says here the NBA Finals could end tonight. That doesn't work
for us.

   Let's talk numbers.

   Through the first four games of these NBA Finals, we have been
bestowed an all-time high 17.5 Nielsen rating average. I'm like
you. Nielsen numbers don't mean anything to me. Except, in this
case, my job. So I have to acknowledge them.

   To put this into context, the previous four-game high was in '93
(17.1) when you guys squashed Charles Barkley and Phoenix. The
first three games of last year's Jazz-Bulls series made it to about
two million fewer homes (15.5 average).

   Very Bullish, indeed. But there's more.

   Despite trashing the Jazz in Game 3, the 16.2 rating/28 share
was the second-highest Game 3 in Finals history. We think about 52
million folks watched all or part of that one. Especially the part
when you were goofing off on the bench during the fourth quarter.
You're !ital!soooo!off! funny! (Want another guest host spot on
``Saturday Night Live''?)

   Game 4 came back with a 19.1/33 _ making it the fourth
most-watched NBA telecast in history with 58 million viewers.

   Who knew that an Adam Keefe-Luc Longley matchup could produce
such viewership?

   The network also won the week ending June 7 _ the first three
NBA Final games were the week's three top-rated shows. ``Touched by
an Angel'' was squashed by a dynasty.

   How much do you mean to us? Let us continue to count the ways.

   I pick up the latest copy of Fortune magazine _ with you on the
cover, of course, right under the Sports Illustrated, with you on
the cover, of course. Fortune makes me pay $4.95 to tell me you're
responsible for about $10 billion in our nation's economy. No
surprise.

   One thing bothered me about that story. When it tried to
determine how much you've meant to NBC, it came up with a formula _
a dollar figure _ that I'm not real comfortable with.

   Compare the ratings of the previous five NBC Finals during the
'90s that you have participated (16.3) versus the three series that
you were, ahem, absent (12.9). That's a 27 percent increase.
Applied to the $1.3 billion in rights fees we have paid this
decade, that means _ according to them _ a $366 million surplus.
That's without even factoring in this year's numbers.

   Sure, that's a lot of Wheaties. But you know what? That $366
millll (sorry, my hand shakes when i write that number) doesn't
begin to measure our relationship. Our love. The time we've spent
together. Those special moments no one can take from us...

   Maybe you can walk away from that. But I can't.

   If I'm being too dramatic, I apologize. Desperate people
sometimes do desperate things. Just look at this rival NFL deal I'm
trying to put together with, of all people, Ted Turner. 'Nough
said.

   Bottom line: This show must go on. We aren't satisfied with a
Game 6 and 7. I'll be honest. I've been talking to David Stern
about making this a best of 23 _ that's your number, right? _ and I
think we can make this the highest-rated summer replacement show in
the history of television.

   But I need more time. And I'm told I need your approval.

   If you pull a Seinfeld on us right now _ if you walk away from
this gold mine _ you're making a huge mistake.

   It's not as if you're moving on to something bigger. What are
you going to do in your free time anyway, get your own talk show?
Don't even make me bring up ``The Magic Hour'' at a time like this.

   I shouldn't have to be in this groveling position. I'm a network
executive. People grovel to me. But this should be as obvious to
you _ and all your endorsers _ as it is to us.

   In American TV, we don't quit while we're ahead. We milk every
last drop with spin-offs, reruns, syndication... guest hosting
``Saturday Night Live'' (did I mention that already?)

   MJ, after all we've done for you...

   You owe us.

   Breathlessly awaiting your reply (I'm in the limo right outside
your front gates, if you look out the door). &QL; 
_Dick Ebersol &QL; 
_Big shot, NBC Sports &QL;

   WHAT SMOKES  &QL;

   _ The Ugly American sports fan don't need no stinking World Cup
soccer when it has real football _ the World Bowl '98 (Sunday, 10
a.m., Channel 11). Fox has dispatched Tim Ryan, Ronnie Lott and
Bill Maas to Frankfurt, Germany, as the network's first three-man
football announcer booth for the World Bowl between Frankfurt and
Rhein. In true Fox fashion, World Bowl '98 will have wireless mikes
on both head coaches as well as the starting quarterbacks and
centers, plus live audio and video from the locker rooms. Just in
case you're wondering about Fox's next pitch to covering the NFL. &QL; 
_ MSNBC's Keith Olbermann , the former ``SportsCenter'' anchor who
has been one of the biggest ESPN bashers since leaving the Bristol,
Conn., satellite dish farm last year, issued an apology during his
Sportsfan Radio Network commentary Thursday. ``I had a lot of fun
on that show and a big part of me didn't want to go,'' Olbermann
admitted, ``and I wasn't mature enough to deal with it any other
way.'' &QL;

   WHAT CHOKES  &QL;

   _ It's so scripted that it's insulting, so awkward that it's
painful. Basically, it just makes you want to cry. As a talk-show
host, Magic Johnson is one of the greatest players in NBA history.
There's a new commercial with Magic laying on the beach saying,
``With the American Express card, you can be anything you like.''
Not quite. ``The Tragic Hour'' has no magic, no matter what any of
Hollywood's best special-effects artists can produce. So far,
critics have gone relatively easy on the ex-Lakers star mugging for
the camera and pretending to interview celebs who once applauded
his work. We'd all like to see him succeed. But someone has to
prevent him from embarrassing himself any more. One of his yes-men
must see that. One week in, he's given radio show hosts like Howard
Stern fodder for months. This proposed transformation of a sports
icon into the next Arsenio Hall

   must be declared an unnatural disaster before the White House
sends public funds in to clean up the mess.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0375 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:53 ',
			header: '
A5527 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-HKN-CAPITALS-HUNTER-N     06-11 0692
',
			slug: ' BC-HKN-CAPITALS-HUNTER-NYT ',
			headline: '
HUNTER IS ROUGH, READY AND NONE TOO POPULAR WITH OPPONENTS 
',
			trailer: '
   DETROIT _ Before joining the Washington Capitals late last
season, Adam Oates' opinion of Dale Hunter was consistent with the
rest of the hockey world.

   ``He was just miserable to play against,'' the Capitals center
said. ``I don't know how else to say it.''

   And now that Oates has Hunter on his side?

   ``He's really a great guy,'' Oates said. ``Off the ice, he's a
completely different person. That gets lost with all the rough
stuff.''

   And that's the way it has been with Hunter for 18 National
Hockey League seasons _ a matter of perspective. To the 25 other
teams, he is one of the most despised players in the league, a
cheap-shot artist who regularly crosses the line between hard-nosed
play and dirty play. But to his teammates, he is a revered figure.

   Washington defenseman Phil Housley said, ``He's our John
Elway,'' referring to his inspirational qualities.

   Oates looks at his longevity and compares him to Cal Ripken.
Elway and Ripken are two of the most respected figures in sports.
Hunter, who is making his first Stanley Cup final appearance, is
not. But he inspires that kind of loyalty in the Capitals' locker
room, where he has become the poster boy for their Stanley Cup run.

   ``The guys in the room will go through a wall for him,''
Capitals Coach Ron Wilson said.

   ``He's not an affected guy,'' said George McPhee, the Capitals
general manager. ``He's a regular guy, a real throwback. He's been
around for a long time and I think he realizes the significance of
all this. This is probably his last chance.''

   And he is making the most of it. In Game 1 of the Stanley Cup
finals, Hunter provided one of the game's few interesting moments
when he sat on Steve Yzerman, the Wings captain and franchise icon,
and then cuffed him repeatedly on the back of the head. Just doing
my job, Hunter said amid the ensuing uproar. The Red Wings were
incensed.

   But no one should be surprised Hunter was in the middle of the
fray. He has played that way for 18 grueling seasons. He is the
NHL's all-time leader in playoff penalty minutes and he is second
on the career regular-season list to Dave ``Tiger'' Williams.

   The defining moment of his career was probably his hit on the
Islanders' Pierre Turgeon in the 1993 playoffs. True, he has also
produced four overtime goals in the playoffs, good for third on the
all-time list, and he was a regular 60- to 70-point center in his
salad days. But no one thinks about offense when they think about
Hunter.

   ``I don't worry about it,'' he said of his image. ``My friends
and family know who I am.''

   And they are with him during his Stanley Cup odyssey.

   Hunter was raised on a soybean farm in Petrolia, Ontario, which
is about an hour's drive from Detroit. His brothers Dave and Mark
both won Stanley Cup rings, Dave with the Oilers in the mid-1980s
and Mark with Calgary in 1989. Dick, the family patriarch, has been
driving down from Petrolia to attend the Cup finals games in
Detroit. Dale is usually helping with the harvest this time of
year. But he has been excused from his chores because of his
commitment to the Red Wings.

   ``I was raised with the idea you came to the rink and worked
hard,'' Dale Hunter said. ``If we didn't work hard, my dad wouldn't
bring us back to the arena.''

   That uncompromising approach is reflected in Hunter's game.
Maybe a little too much. Following the incident in Game 1, Yzerman
was asked if he regarded Hunter as a rugged player or a dirty
player.

   The Wings' captain thought about it for a second, then said:
``I've got no problems with the way he plays. I'm not going to
complain. Dirty isn't always a derogatory term. In hockey, it can
be a good thing.''

   The Capitals think so.

   ``I love the way he plays,'' Wilson said. ``Sometimes he gets
penalized for it _ a lot of times he gets penalized for it _ but
he's 37 and he still plays the same way he did when he was 21. You
know what you're going to get from him every night.'' &QL;
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 By ED WILLES    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   DETROIT _ Before joining the Washington Capitals late last
season, Adam Oates' opinion of Dale Hunter was consistent with the
rest of the hockey world.

   ``He was just miserable to play against,'' the Capitals center
said. ``I don't know how else to say it.''

   And now that Oates has Hunter on his side?

   ``He's really a great guy,'' Oates said. ``Off the ice, he's a
completely different person. That gets lost with all the rough
stuff.''

   And that's the way it has been with Hunter for 18 National
Hockey League seasons _ a matter of perspective. To the 25 other
teams, he is one of the most despised players in the league, a
cheap-shot artist who regularly crosses the line between hard-nosed
play and dirty play. But to his teammates, he is a revered figure.

   Washington defenseman Phil Housley said, ``He's our John
Elway,'' referring to his inspirational qualities.

   Oates looks at his longevity and compares him to Cal Ripken.
Elway and Ripken are two of the most respected figures in sports.
Hunter, who is making his first Stanley Cup final appearance, is
not. But he inspires that kind of loyalty in the Capitals' locker
room, where he has become the poster boy for their Stanley Cup run.

   ``The guys in the room will go through a wall for him,''
Capitals Coach Ron Wilson said.

   ``He's not an affected guy,'' said George McPhee, the Capitals
general manager. ``He's a regular guy, a real throwback. He's been
around for a long time and I think he realizes the significance of
all this. This is probably his last chance.''

   And he is making the most of it. In Game 1 of the Stanley Cup
finals, Hunter provided one of the game's few interesting moments
when he sat on Steve Yzerman, the Wings captain and franchise icon,
and then cuffed him repeatedly on the back of the head. Just doing
my job, Hunter said amid the ensuing uproar. The Red Wings were
incensed.

   But no one should be surprised Hunter was in the middle of the
fray. He has played that way for 18 grueling seasons. He is the
NHL's all-time leader in playoff penalty minutes and he is second
on the career regular-season list to Dave ``Tiger'' Williams.

   The defining moment of his career was probably his hit on the
Islanders' Pierre Turgeon in the 1993 playoffs. True, he has also
produced four overtime goals in the playoffs, good for third on the
all-time list, and he was a regular 60- to 70-point center in his
salad days. But no one thinks about offense when they think about
Hunter.

   ``I don't worry about it,'' he said of his image. ``My friends
and family know who I am.''

   And they are with him during his Stanley Cup odyssey.

   Hunter was raised on a soybean farm in Petrolia, Ontario, which
is about an hour's drive from Detroit. His brothers Dave and Mark
both won Stanley Cup rings, Dave with the Oilers in the mid-1980s
and Mark with Calgary in 1989. Dick, the family patriarch, has been
driving down from Petrolia to attend the Cup finals games in
Detroit. Dale is usually helping with the harvest this time of
year. But he has been excused from his chores because of his
commitment to the Red Wings.

   ``I was raised with the idea you came to the rink and worked
hard,'' Dale Hunter said. ``If we didn't work hard, my dad wouldn't
bring us back to the arena.''

   That uncompromising approach is reflected in Hunter's game.
Maybe a little too much. Following the incident in Game 1, Yzerman
was asked if he regarded Hunter as a rugged player or a dirty
player.

   The Wings' captain thought about it for a second, then said:
``I've got no problems with the way he plays. I'm not going to
complain. Dirty isn't always a derogatory term. In hockey, it can
be a good thing.''

   The Capitals think so.

   ``I love the way he plays,'' Wilson said. ``Sometimes he gets
penalized for it _ a lot of times he gets penalized for it _ but
he's 37 and he still plays the same way he did when he was 21. You
know what you're going to get from him every night.'' &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0376 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:53 ',
			header: '
A5528 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BKC-USC-LADN     06-11 0340
',
			slug: ' BC-BKC-USC-LADN ',
			headline: '
USC CLEARED IN PAC-10 PROBE
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ The Pacific-10 Conference has found no evidence
that USC basketball recruit Sam Clancy received illegal cash
payments and concluded its six-week investigation into the
allegation.

   Clancy will be eligible to play next season, and USC head coach
Henry Bibby and assistant coach Dave Miller were both cleared
regarding the allegation that Clancy was paid $25,000.

   Clancy's high school basketball coach, Eric Flannery, said he
spoke to Pac-10 investigator David Price on Monday and was told the
matter had been closed.

   ``(Price) said that they didn't find anything and they were not
going to find anything,'' Flannery said. ``As far as the money is
concerned, he said there was no money.

   ``As far as Sam's case is concerned, that part of it is over.''

   Price declined comment Wednesday but confirmed he had spoken to
Flannery. He said the Pac-10 would not be issuing a statement.

   According to sources, the investigation into USC still has two
or three minor issues to explore before being officially closed.

   Flannery, the head coach at St. Edwards High School in Lakewood,
Ohio, said he was upset over the damage the allegations had done to
Clancy, a 6-foot-6 forward who was a Parade All-American. Clancy
spurned several better-known basketball powers, including
Cincinnati and Michigan, to sign with the Trojans last November.

   ``It's kind of hurt the reputations of everybody, and that's
unfortunate,'' Flannery said. ``It's upsetting how a rumor can go
that far. I've had three players go to Division I schools this
year, and (USC's) been the most honest in recruiting.''

   Clancy could not be reached for comment this week. But in an
interview in January, he said, ``Some people say I shocked them.
But I picked USC because they said I could start right away and I
really like California. I want to be involved right away.''
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By SCOTT WOLF  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ The Pacific-10 Conference has found no evidence
that USC basketball recruit Sam Clancy received illegal cash
payments and concluded its six-week investigation into the
allegation.

   Clancy will be eligible to play next season, and USC head coach
Henry Bibby and assistant coach Dave Miller were both cleared
regarding the allegation that Clancy was paid $25,000.

   Clancy's high school basketball coach, Eric Flannery, said he
spoke to Pac-10 investigator David Price on Monday and was told the
matter had been closed.

   ``(Price) said that they didn't find anything and they were not
going to find anything,'' Flannery said. ``As far as the money is
concerned, he said there was no money.

   ``As far as Sam's case is concerned, that part of it is over.''

   Price declined comment Wednesday but confirmed he had spoken to
Flannery. He said the Pac-10 would not be issuing a statement.

   According to sources, the investigation into USC still has two
or three minor issues to explore before being officially closed.

   Flannery, the head coach at St. Edwards High School in Lakewood,
Ohio, said he was upset over the damage the allegations had done to
Clancy, a 6-foot-6 forward who was a Parade All-American. Clancy
spurned several better-known basketball powers, including
Cincinnati and Michigan, to sign with the Trojans last November.

   ``It's kind of hurt the reputations of everybody, and that's
unfortunate,'' Flannery said. ``It's upsetting how a rumor can go
that far. I've had three players go to Division I schools this
year, and (USC's) been the most honest in recruiting.''

   Clancy could not be reached for comment this week. But in an
interview in January, he said, ``Some people say I shocked them.
But I picked USC because they said I could start right away and I
really like California. I want to be involved right away.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0377 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:54 ',
			header: '
A5530 &Cx1f; ttx-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BAPTISTS-TEX     06-11 0842
',
			slug: ' BC-BAPTISTS-TEX ',
			headline: '
CHRISTIAN POLITICAL CONSERVATIVE PRAISES SOUTHERN BAPTISTS FOR
ACTIONS
',
			trailer: '
   SALT LAKE CITY _ James Dobson, one of the nation's most powerful
spokesmen for Christian political conservatives, praised Baptists
on Thursday during the closing session of the Southern Baptist
Convention for taking controversial stands on women's roles,
homosexuality and other issues.

   ``Thank God for Southern Baptists,'' he told the convention.
``You will be vilified and insulted because of these stands. You
will be called right-wing, extremist, fundamentalist and even worse
names.''

   Dobson thanked Baptists particularly for passing a resolution on
Thursday urging President Clinton to rescind his executive order
prohibiting discrimination in the federal work force based on
sexual orientation.

   But they narrowly defeated an amendment, 1,071 to 1,005, calling
for Clinton's home church in Little Rock, Ark., to consider
disciplinary action against the president if he doesn't rescind the
order.

   Interrupted by applause several times, Dobson said Baptists will
be rewarded for the courage to take biblical stands in ``a world
that is going into a moral free fall.''

   He spoke at the close of the denomination's three-day annual
convention, which was attended by 8,586 messengers, or delegates,
and others. The sessions came after a weekend of door-to-door
evangelizing in this heavily Mormon city, and convention officials
reported that more than 1,200 people made professions of faith
during the week.

   Dobson is a psychologist and author known for his daily radio
broadcasts. His organization, Focus on the Family, based in
Colorado Springs, Colo., has a huge publishing and lobbying arm
that tries to influence political candidates to take stands on
moral and social issues, particularly abortion.

   He said Southern Baptists are being criticized for their
amendment to the Baptist Faith and Message Statement this week on
``The Family.'' It calls on wives ``to submit graciously to the
servant leadership of their husbands.''

   ``You woman haters,'' Dobson mockingly called his Baptist
audience.

   Dobson said modern culture is embracing moral relativism and is
surprised when church members take the Bible at face value.
Churchgoers, he said, are too often silent.

   ``We have hidden for too long behind the statement that we don't
want to deal with politics,'' Dobson said. ``But it is not
political to kill babies. It's immoral to kill babies.''

   He castigated Clinton for vetoing a bill that would have
prohibited a late-term abortion procedure often called
``partial-birth abortion.'' Clinton cited insufficient safeguards
to protect the health and life of the mother.

   Moderate Baptists keeping tabs on the convention took issue with
some of its actions.

   The Rev. C. Welton Gaddy, a former senior pastor at Fort Worth's
Broadway Baptist Church and now executive director of the moderate
Interfaith Alliance, said he believes that the convention's actions
are part of an organized effort to gain political points with the
so-called religious right.

   ``If a person is upfront about the fact that they're doing
politics, that's one thing,'' Gaddy said, ``but to manipulate
statements of faith and in the name of religion do politics, that's
something else.''

   During their final sessions, Baptists also approved another
resolution relating to women's roles. It urges repeal of the
federal policy that allows women to engage in military combat.

   The resolution calls allowing women in combat ``a foolish social
experiment'' that is dangerous and undermines the male role as
protector and head of the family. It asks the government to
``restore the historic limitation of military combat service to
males only.''

   Since the Persian Gulf War, Congress repealed the
combat-exclusion law in 1993 and the services opened up many
previously men-only jobs, most notably in combat aviation.

   But a number of career fields remain closed to women at the
services' discretion, such as infantry, artillery and tank units in
the Army and Marines, and submarines in the Navy.

   Michael Whitehead, chairman of the Baptist resolutions
committee, said having women in combat ``puts women at risk and it
puts men at risk. God has assigned the man to be the protector of
the home and the protector of the nation.''

   The resolution stated that it also unnecessarily ``escalates
sexual tensions among combat warriors'' and ``exposes female
warriors taken as POWs to the special trauma of rape and sexual
abuse.''

   The convention also approved a resolution ``On Public Funding of
Anti-Christian Bigotry,'' which criticizes the Public Broadcasting
Service for airing the movie ``From Jesus to Christ,'' which the
resolution calls ``an attack on biblical Christianity.''

   (Staff writer Chris Vaughn contributed to this report. Visit the
Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web:
www.star-telegram.com)
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By JIM JONES 
c.1997 Fort Worth Star-Telegram 

',
			paragraphs: '
   SALT LAKE CITY _ James Dobson, one of the nation's most powerful
spokesmen for Christian political conservatives, praised Baptists
on Thursday during the closing session of the Southern Baptist
Convention for taking controversial stands on women's roles,
homosexuality and other issues.

   ``Thank God for Southern Baptists,'' he told the convention.
``You will be vilified and insulted because of these stands. You
will be called right-wing, extremist, fundamentalist and even worse
names.''

   Dobson thanked Baptists particularly for passing a resolution on
Thursday urging President Clinton to rescind his executive order
prohibiting discrimination in the federal work force based on
sexual orientation.

   But they narrowly defeated an amendment, 1,071 to 1,005, calling
for Clinton's home church in Little Rock, Ark., to consider
disciplinary action against the president if he doesn't rescind the
order.

   Interrupted by applause several times, Dobson said Baptists will
be rewarded for the courage to take biblical stands in ``a world
that is going into a moral free fall.''

   He spoke at the close of the denomination's three-day annual
convention, which was attended by 8,586 messengers, or delegates,
and others. The sessions came after a weekend of door-to-door
evangelizing in this heavily Mormon city, and convention officials
reported that more than 1,200 people made professions of faith
during the week.

   Dobson is a psychologist and author known for his daily radio
broadcasts. His organization, Focus on the Family, based in
Colorado Springs, Colo., has a huge publishing and lobbying arm
that tries to influence political candidates to take stands on
moral and social issues, particularly abortion.

   He said Southern Baptists are being criticized for their
amendment to the Baptist Faith and Message Statement this week on
``The Family.'' It calls on wives ``to submit graciously to the
servant leadership of their husbands.''

   ``You woman haters,'' Dobson mockingly called his Baptist
audience.

   Dobson said modern culture is embracing moral relativism and is
surprised when church members take the Bible at face value.
Churchgoers, he said, are too often silent.

   ``We have hidden for too long behind the statement that we don't
want to deal with politics,'' Dobson said. ``But it is not
political to kill babies. It's immoral to kill babies.''

   He castigated Clinton for vetoing a bill that would have
prohibited a late-term abortion procedure often called
``partial-birth abortion.'' Clinton cited insufficient safeguards
to protect the health and life of the mother.

   Moderate Baptists keeping tabs on the convention took issue with
some of its actions.

   The Rev. C. Welton Gaddy, a former senior pastor at Fort Worth's
Broadway Baptist Church and now executive director of the moderate
Interfaith Alliance, said he believes that the convention's actions
are part of an organized effort to gain political points with the
so-called religious right.

   ``If a person is upfront about the fact that they're doing
politics, that's one thing,'' Gaddy said, ``but to manipulate
statements of faith and in the name of religion do politics, that's
something else.''

   During their final sessions, Baptists also approved another
resolution relating to women's roles. It urges repeal of the
federal policy that allows women to engage in military combat.

   The resolution calls allowing women in combat ``a foolish social
experiment'' that is dangerous and undermines the male role as
protector and head of the family. It asks the government to
``restore the historic limitation of military combat service to
males only.''

   Since the Persian Gulf War, Congress repealed the
combat-exclusion law in 1993 and the services opened up many
previously men-only jobs, most notably in combat aviation.

   But a number of career fields remain closed to women at the
services' discretion, such as infantry, artillery and tank units in
the Army and Marines, and submarines in the Navy.

   Michael Whitehead, chairman of the Baptist resolutions
committee, said having women in combat ``puts women at risk and it
puts men at risk. God has assigned the man to be the protector of
the home and the protector of the nation.''

   The resolution stated that it also unnecessarily ``escalates
sexual tensions among combat warriors'' and ``exposes female
warriors taken as POWs to the special trauma of rape and sexual
abuse.''

   The convention also approved a resolution ``On Public Funding of
Anti-Christian Bigotry,'' which criticizes the Public Broadcasting
Service for airing the movie ``From Jesus to Christ,'' which the
resolution calls ``an attack on biblical Christianity.''

   (Staff writer Chris Vaughn contributed to this report. Visit the
Star-Telegram's online services on the World Wide Web:
www.star-telegram.com)
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0378 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:55 ',
			header: '
A5531 &Cx1f; ttd-z
r f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-RHONE-SFCHRON &LR;      06-11 1283
',
			slug: ' BC-RHONE-SFCHRON ',
			headline: '


',
			trailer: '
   As part of a major corporate makeover, the 102-year-old
Rhone-Poulenc SA, one of the old-line industrial giants in Europe,
has latched onto cutting-edge medicine as its new raison d'etre.

   The strategy's centerpiece is Hayward-based RPR Gencell, a
4-year-old division of Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Inc., the French
company's pharmaceutical group. The division is trying to pioneer
gene therapies for cancer, cardiovascular disease and
nervous-system disorders.

   Jean-Rene Fourtou, Rhone-Poulenc's chairman and chief executive,
outlined the new game plan during a recent West Coast visit,
portraying RPR Gencell as a fleet-footed biotech startup scouting
the world for the most promising technology leads.

   ``We cannot continue to rely on huge battalions of researchers
inside our own corporate offices,'' he said. ``Even if you go out
and hire the best biologists today, they may not be the best five
years from now.''

   The 380-employee Bay Area division has set up an elaborate
consortium of 18 independent collaborators, including teams at
Stanford University, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratories and outside
companies such as San Diego-based Vical Inc. and privately held
Introgen Therapeutics Inc. in Texas.

   The goal is to make Rhone-Poulenc one of the first two or three
drugmakers to fashion a commercial success out of the still-unmet
promises of gene therapy.

   The approach, touted for years but held back by some nasty
technical surprises, is aimed at treating diseases at the source of
the problem, either by injecting patients with specially packaged
bits of genetic material or by doctoring their own genes.

   At Rhone-Poulenc, the most promising projects include a
potential cancer treatment, now in mid-stage clinical trials, based
on the famed p53 tumor-suppressor gene.

   It's been dubbed a ``master'' gene that essentially guards over
your DNA, making sure any defective cells are repaired or
destroyed. Defects in the p53 gene have been implicated in more
than half of all cancers.

   By injecting a healthy form of the gene into and around a tumor,
Rhone-Poulenc hopes to override the defective gene and activate the
patient's own cancer-killing mechanisms. Although Rhone-Poulenc
isn't the only company working on a p53 treatment, the French
company claims to be the furthest along. It plans to file for U.S.
Food and Drug Administration approval in 1999 to market a p53
treatment for head and neck cancer.

   ``A treatment is not so far away,'' Fourtou said. ``We actually
thought it would take longer than it has taken to get this far.''

   In a move designed partly to elevate the strategic role of gene
therapy, RPR Gencell's general manager, Thierry Soursac, was named
to a top-level executive vice president position this week.

   ``Gene therapy is an integral part of the Rhone-Poulenc strategy
and commitment to life sciences,'' Soursac said yesterday. ``The
area of molecular medicine cannot be ignored by any major industry
player.''

   Until lately, Rhone-Poulenc was better known for its strong
unions, polluting chemical plants and moribund finances than
high-tech medical research.

   It was considered moribund in the early 1980s, when it was
nationalized by the Mitterrand government. Fourtou was hired in
1986 to turn things around, eventually leading the company back
into the hands of private investors in 1993.

   When Fourtou took the helm, the bulk of sales were in chemicals,
industrial plastics and fibers. Only 30 percent had anything to do
with the sexier ``life sciences'' categories now in vogue.

   That balance has shifted dramatically. Drugs, vaccines and
agricultural products last year comprised 60 percent of sales and
continue growing.

   It wasn't a smooth transition. Fourtou inherited a dizzying
collection of 120 separate business units and 80,000 employees
worldwide.

   Now, all but 30 businesses have been sold off, shut down or
diverted into joint ventures with outside firms. Jobs have been cut
to 68,000, a move that has occasionally drawn union pickets to
Fourtou's doorstep.

   On the plus side, the company's profile outside France and
Europe has been steadily rising, particularly in North America,
which now accounts for 26.5 percent of sales, nearly triple the
share 10 years ago.

   The company took the final step in its reorganization plan on
Monday, when it spun off a 30 percent stake in its revamped
specialty-chemicals unit, called Rhodia, through a public stock
offering.

   ``We've come to the end of a 12-year period of painful
transformation,'' Fourtou said. ``The demonstrations at my home _
that phase, I hope, is done. Our intent now is to innovate.''

   Participants in the RPR Gencell consortium speak confidently of
spearheading a revolution in the way incurable diseases like cancer
are treated.

   ``Twenty years from now we will all look back and wonder why we
were ever treating cancer with poisons,'' said Vical CEO Alain
Schreiber.

   Despite all the promise, however, there's still no proof that
the new-style gene medicines will prove effective for large numbers
of patients.

   Investigators only recently claimed to have perfected ways to
deliver the therapy into the cells where it can do some good.

   Questions are also being raised about the consortium approach
taken by Rhone-Poulenc.

   Comparable ventures in other high-tech fields like
semiconductors and computer-networking have been hard to hold
together, noted G. Steven Burrill, head of Burrill &AMP; Co., a San
Francisco merchant bank specializing in medical ventures.

   ``By and large, consortia don't work,'' Burrill said. ``It's a
neat idea, but it's tough. You can have a hub-and-spoke system that
works well in theory, but I don't know that all the spokes want to
stay connected.''

   The key question is who will end up with the profits from any
technology developed by the consortium, and who will end up footing
the bill for the inevitable failures.

   In most other collaborations between big pharmaceutical
companies and small biotech outfits, there's a clear understanding
of what each party will contribute and how the pie is divided.

   That doesn't seem to be the case at RPR Gencell. But Soursac
said the setup has the advantage of flexibility.

   ``The concept behind our partnerships is that we are an
assembler of technology _ not the creator of each technology,''
Soursac said. ``Our partnership structure is less about control and
more about building commercial possibilities.''

   Analysts said the consortium is just one approach among many in
a very complicated field.

   ``All of these companies are still trying to sort out what's the
most effective business model,'' said Scott Morrison, a biotech
analyst at Ernst &AMP; Young, the big accounting and consulting firm.

   Merger rumors also swirl around the company. Some analysts still
consider it undervalued and therefore a possibly attractive merger
partner in the rapidly consolidating drug industry.

   For now, at least, Fourtou is not ruling out anything, including
a merger if the right deal came along. &UR;  &LR; But he said his main focus
is to build a strong product pipeline internally and through his
``loose but nevertheless managed'' RPR Gencell consortium.

   The company aims to deliver at least 15 percent annual revenue
growth over the next several years. ``Merger or no merger,''
Fourtou said, ``we are striving for innovation.''
',
			body: '


  
 (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service)   Rhone-Poulenc Gets Genetic Makeover  
   
 By Carl T. Hall  
 c.1998 San Francisco Chronicle  
 
 
Faint hints of a French accent are starting to surface in the U.S.
biotechnology industry.

',
			paragraphs: '
   As part of a major corporate makeover, the 102-year-old
Rhone-Poulenc SA, one of the old-line industrial giants in Europe,
has latched onto cutting-edge medicine as its new raison d'etre.

   The strategy's centerpiece is Hayward-based RPR Gencell, a
4-year-old division of Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Inc., the French
company's pharmaceutical group. The division is trying to pioneer
gene therapies for cancer, cardiovascular disease and
nervous-system disorders.

   Jean-Rene Fourtou, Rhone-Poulenc's chairman and chief executive,
outlined the new game plan during a recent West Coast visit,
portraying RPR Gencell as a fleet-footed biotech startup scouting
the world for the most promising technology leads.

   ``We cannot continue to rely on huge battalions of researchers
inside our own corporate offices,'' he said. ``Even if you go out
and hire the best biologists today, they may not be the best five
years from now.''

   The 380-employee Bay Area division has set up an elaborate
consortium of 18 independent collaborators, including teams at
Stanford University, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratories and outside
companies such as San Diego-based Vical Inc. and privately held
Introgen Therapeutics Inc. in Texas.

   The goal is to make Rhone-Poulenc one of the first two or three
drugmakers to fashion a commercial success out of the still-unmet
promises of gene therapy.

   The approach, touted for years but held back by some nasty
technical surprises, is aimed at treating diseases at the source of
the problem, either by injecting patients with specially packaged
bits of genetic material or by doctoring their own genes.

   At Rhone-Poulenc, the most promising projects include a
potential cancer treatment, now in mid-stage clinical trials, based
on the famed p53 tumor-suppressor gene.

   It's been dubbed a ``master'' gene that essentially guards over
your DNA, making sure any defective cells are repaired or
destroyed. Defects in the p53 gene have been implicated in more
than half of all cancers.

   By injecting a healthy form of the gene into and around a tumor,
Rhone-Poulenc hopes to override the defective gene and activate the
patient's own cancer-killing mechanisms. Although Rhone-Poulenc
isn't the only company working on a p53 treatment, the French
company claims to be the furthest along. It plans to file for U.S.
Food and Drug Administration approval in 1999 to market a p53
treatment for head and neck cancer.

   ``A treatment is not so far away,'' Fourtou said. ``We actually
thought it would take longer than it has taken to get this far.''

   In a move designed partly to elevate the strategic role of gene
therapy, RPR Gencell's general manager, Thierry Soursac, was named
to a top-level executive vice president position this week.

   ``Gene therapy is an integral part of the Rhone-Poulenc strategy
and commitment to life sciences,'' Soursac said yesterday. ``The
area of molecular medicine cannot be ignored by any major industry
player.''

   Until lately, Rhone-Poulenc was better known for its strong
unions, polluting chemical plants and moribund finances than
high-tech medical research.

   It was considered moribund in the early 1980s, when it was
nationalized by the Mitterrand government. Fourtou was hired in
1986 to turn things around, eventually leading the company back
into the hands of private investors in 1993.

   When Fourtou took the helm, the bulk of sales were in chemicals,
industrial plastics and fibers. Only 30 percent had anything to do
with the sexier ``life sciences'' categories now in vogue.

   That balance has shifted dramatically. Drugs, vaccines and
agricultural products last year comprised 60 percent of sales and
continue growing.

   It wasn't a smooth transition. Fourtou inherited a dizzying
collection of 120 separate business units and 80,000 employees
worldwide.

   Now, all but 30 businesses have been sold off, shut down or
diverted into joint ventures with outside firms. Jobs have been cut
to 68,000, a move that has occasionally drawn union pickets to
Fourtou's doorstep.

   On the plus side, the company's profile outside France and
Europe has been steadily rising, particularly in North America,
which now accounts for 26.5 percent of sales, nearly triple the
share 10 years ago.

   The company took the final step in its reorganization plan on
Monday, when it spun off a 30 percent stake in its revamped
specialty-chemicals unit, called Rhodia, through a public stock
offering.

   ``We've come to the end of a 12-year period of painful
transformation,'' Fourtou said. ``The demonstrations at my home _
that phase, I hope, is done. Our intent now is to innovate.''

   Participants in the RPR Gencell consortium speak confidently of
spearheading a revolution in the way incurable diseases like cancer
are treated.

   ``Twenty years from now we will all look back and wonder why we
were ever treating cancer with poisons,'' said Vical CEO Alain
Schreiber.

   Despite all the promise, however, there's still no proof that
the new-style gene medicines will prove effective for large numbers
of patients.

   Investigators only recently claimed to have perfected ways to
deliver the therapy into the cells where it can do some good.

   Questions are also being raised about the consortium approach
taken by Rhone-Poulenc.

   Comparable ventures in other high-tech fields like
semiconductors and computer-networking have been hard to hold
together, noted G. Steven Burrill, head of Burrill &AMP; Co., a San
Francisco merchant bank specializing in medical ventures.

   ``By and large, consortia don't work,'' Burrill said. ``It's a
neat idea, but it's tough. You can have a hub-and-spoke system that
works well in theory, but I don't know that all the spokes want to
stay connected.''

   The key question is who will end up with the profits from any
technology developed by the consortium, and who will end up footing
the bill for the inevitable failures.

   In most other collaborations between big pharmaceutical
companies and small biotech outfits, there's a clear understanding
of what each party will contribute and how the pie is divided.

   That doesn't seem to be the case at RPR Gencell. But Soursac
said the setup has the advantage of flexibility.

   ``The concept behind our partnerships is that we are an
assembler of technology _ not the creator of each technology,''
Soursac said. ``Our partnership structure is less about control and
more about building commercial possibilities.''

   Analysts said the consortium is just one approach among many in
a very complicated field.

   ``All of these companies are still trying to sort out what's the
most effective business model,'' said Scott Morrison, a biotech
analyst at Ernst &AMP; Young, the big accounting and consulting firm.

   Merger rumors also swirl around the company. Some analysts still
consider it undervalued and therefore a possibly attractive merger
partner in the rapidly consolidating drug industry.

   For now, at least, Fourtou is not ruling out anything, including
a merger if the right deal came along. &UR;  &LR; But he said his main focus
is to build a strong product pipeline internally and through his
``loose but nevertheless managed'' RPR Gencell consortium.

   The company aims to deliver at least 15 percent annual revenue
growth over the next several years. ``Merger or no merger,''
Fourtou said, ``we are striving for innovation.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0379 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:56 ',
			header: '
A5533 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GLF-BUICK-475&AMP;ADD-NYT     06-11 0750
',
			slug: ' BC-GLF-BUICK-475&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
SPASMS FORCE ELS OUT; SUTHERLAND LEADS
',
			trailer: '
   HARRISON, N.Y. _ Ernie Els' attempt to win a third consecutive
Buick Classic ended abruptly Thursday when back spasms forced him
to withdraw after nine holes.

   Els, the world's No. 1-ranked player, left Westchester Country
Club shortly after withdrawing, and headed for treatment. The
timing of the injury was particularly unfortunate, with the U.S.
Open beginning next week at the Olympic Club in San Francisco. Els
is the defending U.S. Open champion.

   ``The pain is up high in my back,'' Els said as he checked out
of his hotel Thursday night. ``It feels fine as I'm standing here,
but as I go to make a turn, it hurts, and it's also stiff.''

   Els said he would visit Tom Boers, a physical therapist at the
Hugston Clinic in Columbus, Ga., on Friday. Boers works with Davis
Love III, Fred Couples and other tour players.

   Els said he might have originally injured himself while turning
the wrong way on a plane about three weeks ago. He said he felt
back spasms on Wednesday night and had treatment Thursday morning,
but was still hurting after the first hole.

   He was optimistic about playing next week, although he gave no
guarantees. ``Hopefully, after I get treatment, I'll be able to
straighten it out and feel better,'' he said. &QL;

   Kevin Sutherland was the first-round leader after Thursday's
action, shooting a 7-under-par 64 to lead by two strokes. Bob Tway,
Paul Goydos, J.P. Hayes and Steve Lowery were tied for second,
while Mark Calcavecchia and Tom Lehman each shot 67.

   But the news about Els was the primary talk of the day. Tiger
Woods, the world's No. 2-ranked player, withdrew from the Kemper
Open last week because of back pain. Woods will play next week, but
the deep rough and challenging conditions at the Olympic Club will
be even more difficult for anyone who is at less than 100 percent.

   ``Ernie didn't look very comfortable,'' said Love, who was in
the threesome with Els, and watched him labor to shoot 3 over par
through nine holes.

   ``Any time you see someone getting worked on right before he
tees off, it's not good,'' Love said. ``You could tell it was
bothering him. He really didn't hit a good shot all day.''

   Ralph Simpson, a trainer who worked on Els in the fitness
trailer Thursday morning, said he believed that Els would be fit by
next week. ``I think the best thing is for Ernie to give it a few
days' rest,'' Simpson said. ``It's a back sprain. He said it had
been bothering him for a few weeks, but it flared up.''

   Sutherland drew attention on the course, shooting 7 under par on
a day when only 28 of 49 finishers broke par. Sutherland's
sparkling round included a 30-yard chip-in for birdie at No. 12 and
a 15-yard chip-in for eagle at No. 18. He was superb on the back
nine, shooting a 29 to equal the nine-hole tournament record shared
by Willie Wood (1986) and Kirk Triplett (1990).

   After making the turn at 1 under par (35), Sutherland found a
groove. He made a 15-foot putt for birdie at No. 10, then made his
first chip-in at No. 12. At the par-4 No. 15, Sutherland hit a
3-iron approach shot within 3 feet of the pin for an easy birdie.
He then made another fine approach shot at No. 17, hitting an
8-iron within 4 feet, then making the putt for birdie.

   While Sutherland has two top-10 finishes this year, he had been
in a slump. During a stretch starting in April, Sutherland missed
five consecutive cuts. But an indication that his fortunes were
changing occurred Monday, when he qualified for the U.S. Open at a
36-hole sectional tournament in California. Sutherland made the
cross-country flight to New York on Tuesday.

   ``I didn't want to miss this tournament,'' said Sutherland, who
had five birdies to go with his eagle. ``I love old-style
courses.''

   Sutherland, whose brother David is also in the tournament, has
never won a PGA Tour event. His best finish was second place at
last year's Houston Open, but he is coming off his best season on
tour, finishing 52nd on last year's money list.

   ``It was frustrating for three months this year when I wasn't
playing well,'' said Sutherland, 33, a native of Sacramento, Calif.
``But everything went my way today. I chipped in twice, and I
hadn't chipped in all year. Hopefully, this will be the start of
something good.''
',
			body: '


   (ja) 
 By CLIFTON BROWN    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   HARRISON, N.Y. _ Ernie Els' attempt to win a third consecutive
Buick Classic ended abruptly Thursday when back spasms forced him
to withdraw after nine holes.

   Els, the world's No. 1-ranked player, left Westchester Country
Club shortly after withdrawing, and headed for treatment. The
timing of the injury was particularly unfortunate, with the U.S.
Open beginning next week at the Olympic Club in San Francisco. Els
is the defending U.S. Open champion.

   ``The pain is up high in my back,'' Els said as he checked out
of his hotel Thursday night. ``It feels fine as I'm standing here,
but as I go to make a turn, it hurts, and it's also stiff.''

   Els said he would visit Tom Boers, a physical therapist at the
Hugston Clinic in Columbus, Ga., on Friday. Boers works with Davis
Love III, Fred Couples and other tour players.

   Els said he might have originally injured himself while turning
the wrong way on a plane about three weeks ago. He said he felt
back spasms on Wednesday night and had treatment Thursday morning,
but was still hurting after the first hole.

   He was optimistic about playing next week, although he gave no
guarantees. ``Hopefully, after I get treatment, I'll be able to
straighten it out and feel better,'' he said. &QL;

   Kevin Sutherland was the first-round leader after Thursday's
action, shooting a 7-under-par 64 to lead by two strokes. Bob Tway,
Paul Goydos, J.P. Hayes and Steve Lowery were tied for second,
while Mark Calcavecchia and Tom Lehman each shot 67.

   But the news about Els was the primary talk of the day. Tiger
Woods, the world's No. 2-ranked player, withdrew from the Kemper
Open last week because of back pain. Woods will play next week, but
the deep rough and challenging conditions at the Olympic Club will
be even more difficult for anyone who is at less than 100 percent.

   ``Ernie didn't look very comfortable,'' said Love, who was in
the threesome with Els, and watched him labor to shoot 3 over par
through nine holes.

   ``Any time you see someone getting worked on right before he
tees off, it's not good,'' Love said. ``You could tell it was
bothering him. He really didn't hit a good shot all day.''

   Ralph Simpson, a trainer who worked on Els in the fitness
trailer Thursday morning, said he believed that Els would be fit by
next week. ``I think the best thing is for Ernie to give it a few
days' rest,'' Simpson said. ``It's a back sprain. He said it had
been bothering him for a few weeks, but it flared up.''

   Sutherland drew attention on the course, shooting 7 under par on
a day when only 28 of 49 finishers broke par. Sutherland's
sparkling round included a 30-yard chip-in for birdie at No. 12 and
a 15-yard chip-in for eagle at No. 18. He was superb on the back
nine, shooting a 29 to equal the nine-hole tournament record shared
by Willie Wood (1986) and Kirk Triplett (1990).

   After making the turn at 1 under par (35), Sutherland found a
groove. He made a 15-foot putt for birdie at No. 10, then made his
first chip-in at No. 12. At the par-4 No. 15, Sutherland hit a
3-iron approach shot within 3 feet of the pin for an easy birdie.
He then made another fine approach shot at No. 17, hitting an
8-iron within 4 feet, then making the putt for birdie.

   While Sutherland has two top-10 finishes this year, he had been
in a slump. During a stretch starting in April, Sutherland missed
five consecutive cuts. But an indication that his fortunes were
changing occurred Monday, when he qualified for the U.S. Open at a
36-hole sectional tournament in California. Sutherland made the
cross-country flight to New York on Tuesday.

   ``I didn't want to miss this tournament,'' said Sutherland, who
had five birdies to go with his eagle. ``I love old-style
courses.''

   Sutherland, whose brother David is also in the tournament, has
never won a PGA Tour event. His best finish was second place at
last year's Houston Open, but he is coming off his best season on
tour, finishing 52nd on last year's money list.

   ``It was frustrating for three months this year when I wasn't
playing well,'' said Sutherland, 33, a native of Sacramento, Calif.
``But everything went my way today. I chipped in twice, and I
hadn't chipped in all year. Hopefully, this will be the start of
something good.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0380 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:56 ',
			header: '
A5534 &Cx1f; ttd-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-LEAH-PERSONALS-SFCHRO     06-11 0724
',
			slug: ' BC-LEAH-PERSONALS-SFCHRON ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; HEARTBREAKING VISIT TO THE WHITE HOUSE &LR;

   The joy of attending Tuesday night's White House state dinner
for South Korean President  &UR; Kim Dae-jung &LR;  was muted for one
disabled guest when he stood up from his wheelchair to greet the
president, and his pants fell to his ankles. He remained that way _
with no underwear on _ for 10 seconds, until a fellow guest came to
his aid.

   &UR; Don Imus &LR;  laughed about it all morning on MSNBC, but his bosses
refused to allow him to air the tape. A C-SPAN broadcast of dinner
highlights didn't include footage, but a network spokesman said
footage should have been included. ``A decision was made to protect
this person,'' a self-criticizing  &UR; Rich Fahle &LR;  told the Washington
Post, ``and that's not what C-SPAN is around to do.''

   Fox News Channel showed the tape, couching the incident as one
of life's embarrassing moments. The Post itself ran two stories
mentioning the incident, because, said managing editor
 &UR; Robert &LR;   &UR; Kaiser &LR; , ``a lot of important people saw it and it should
be noted.''

   &UR; Jim Dickson &LR; , an official of the National Organization on
Disability, said it is always news ``if anyone's pants fall down
while shaking hands with the president. ... I don't think we want
special treatment as a disabled group.''

   &QL;

   &UR; REASONS TO WATCH &LR;

   Buffalo  &UR; Bob Smith &LR;  makes his QVC debut Friday at 3 p.m.,
selling such treasured souvenirs as the 26-inch Howdy Doody
Ventriloquist doll and the Howdy Doody T-shirt. This homage to the
days of Doodyville takes place on the 50th anniversary of the TV
show. Doodyware joins a distinguished list of QVC products
including those of the Grateful Dead.

   A one-hour QVC sale of $75,000 worth of Dead merchandise _ CDs,
T-shirts and posters _ sold out on June 5 even though the live
broadcast, from Novato, was late at night.

   In 1974, when the Dead had its own record company, there was
``serious discussion,'' said Dead publicist  &UR; Dennis McNally &LR; ,
``about selling records out of ice cream trucks.'' The QVC sale
``was in the grand tradition of How Strange Can You Get?'' he said.

   &QL;

   &UR; FIGHTIN' WORDS &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; _ Writing in Vanity Fair about  &UR; Lillian Ross &LR; ' and  &UR; Ved &LR; 
 &UR; Mehta &LR; 's new books on life at  &UR; William Shawn &LR; 's New Yorker,  &UR; James &LR; 
 &UR; Wolcott &LR;  takes several swipes at  &UR; Tina Brown &LR; , editor of the rival
Conde Nast publication. Wolcott says that Brown encouraged Ross to
write about her long-time affair with Shawn, because she had a
``desire to pollute and undercut the moral high ground of the Shawn
era, which the present regime finds burdensome. Tarnishing Shawn's
halo makes recent shenanigans look less whory, or so the theory
goes.'' Brown's contract with the New Yorker expires on July 1.

   _ London's latest literary feud is between American
travel-writer and novelist  &UR; Paul &LR;   &UR; Theroux &LR;  and essayist and
novelist &UR; V.S. Naipaul &LR; , once his close friend. According to the
Sunday Times of London, the unpleasantness began when first
editions of books that Theroux had inscribed to Naipaul wound up in
the catalog of an antique book dealer. Naipaul's second wife is
said to have sold them. Theroux's forthcoming book, ``Sir Vidia's
Shadow: A Friendship Across Five Continents,'' is a memoir of their
relationship, and parts are said to be ``pretty vicious,''
according to the New York Post.

   The Houghton Mifflin catalog description says the book tells
``how a friendship waxes and wanes between two men who have set
themselves on the perilous journey of a writing life.''

   &QL;

   &UR; PAINTING THE HILL PINK &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; The Friends of the Pink Triangle, who place a pink triangle
atop Twin Peaks for San Francisco's Lesbian and Gay Pride Freedom
Day parade, say that this year's icon will be 120 feet across,
twice as big as the old one. Money for the new one came from the
mayor's Promotion Fund of Grants for the Arts, part of the hotel
tax fund.

   The triangle will be painted Mardi Gras pink at a painting party
on Sunday.

   &QL;

   &UR; WHO SAID WHAT &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; ``There are plenty of liberals out there with weapons. I also
think there are more conservatives in the Hollywood closet than
there are homosexuals.''

   _ Charlton Heston, president of the National Rifle Association,
in People.
',
			body: '

  
 (Eds: This story also moved in the ``l'' lifestyle file)  
 By LEAH GARCHIK  
 c.1998 San Francisco Chronicle  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; HEARTBREAKING VISIT TO THE WHITE HOUSE &LR;

   The joy of attending Tuesday night's White House state dinner
for South Korean President  &UR; Kim Dae-jung &LR;  was muted for one
disabled guest when he stood up from his wheelchair to greet the
president, and his pants fell to his ankles. He remained that way _
with no underwear on _ for 10 seconds, until a fellow guest came to
his aid.

   &UR; Don Imus &LR;  laughed about it all morning on MSNBC, but his bosses
refused to allow him to air the tape. A C-SPAN broadcast of dinner
highlights didn't include footage, but a network spokesman said
footage should have been included. ``A decision was made to protect
this person,'' a self-criticizing  &UR; Rich Fahle &LR;  told the Washington
Post, ``and that's not what C-SPAN is around to do.''

   Fox News Channel showed the tape, couching the incident as one
of life's embarrassing moments. The Post itself ran two stories
mentioning the incident, because, said managing editor
 &UR; Robert &LR;   &UR; Kaiser &LR; , ``a lot of important people saw it and it should
be noted.''

   &UR; Jim Dickson &LR; , an official of the National Organization on
Disability, said it is always news ``if anyone's pants fall down
while shaking hands with the president. ... I don't think we want
special treatment as a disabled group.''

   &QL;

   &UR; REASONS TO WATCH &LR;

   Buffalo  &UR; Bob Smith &LR;  makes his QVC debut Friday at 3 p.m.,
selling such treasured souvenirs as the 26-inch Howdy Doody
Ventriloquist doll and the Howdy Doody T-shirt. This homage to the
days of Doodyville takes place on the 50th anniversary of the TV
show. Doodyware joins a distinguished list of QVC products
including those of the Grateful Dead.

   A one-hour QVC sale of $75,000 worth of Dead merchandise _ CDs,
T-shirts and posters _ sold out on June 5 even though the live
broadcast, from Novato, was late at night.

   In 1974, when the Dead had its own record company, there was
``serious discussion,'' said Dead publicist  &UR; Dennis McNally &LR; ,
``about selling records out of ice cream trucks.'' The QVC sale
``was in the grand tradition of How Strange Can You Get?'' he said.

   &QL;

   &UR; FIGHTIN' WORDS &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; _ Writing in Vanity Fair about  &UR; Lillian Ross &LR; ' and  &UR; Ved &LR; 
 &UR; Mehta &LR; 's new books on life at  &UR; William Shawn &LR; 's New Yorker,  &UR; James &LR; 
 &UR; Wolcott &LR;  takes several swipes at  &UR; Tina Brown &LR; , editor of the rival
Conde Nast publication. Wolcott says that Brown encouraged Ross to
write about her long-time affair with Shawn, because she had a
``desire to pollute and undercut the moral high ground of the Shawn
era, which the present regime finds burdensome. Tarnishing Shawn's
halo makes recent shenanigans look less whory, or so the theory
goes.'' Brown's contract with the New Yorker expires on July 1.

   _ London's latest literary feud is between American
travel-writer and novelist  &UR; Paul &LR;   &UR; Theroux &LR;  and essayist and
novelist &UR; V.S. Naipaul &LR; , once his close friend. According to the
Sunday Times of London, the unpleasantness began when first
editions of books that Theroux had inscribed to Naipaul wound up in
the catalog of an antique book dealer. Naipaul's second wife is
said to have sold them. Theroux's forthcoming book, ``Sir Vidia's
Shadow: A Friendship Across Five Continents,'' is a memoir of their
relationship, and parts are said to be ``pretty vicious,''
according to the New York Post.

   The Houghton Mifflin catalog description says the book tells
``how a friendship waxes and wanes between two men who have set
themselves on the perilous journey of a writing life.''

   &QL;

   &UR; PAINTING THE HILL PINK &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; The Friends of the Pink Triangle, who place a pink triangle
atop Twin Peaks for San Francisco's Lesbian and Gay Pride Freedom
Day parade, say that this year's icon will be 120 feet across,
twice as big as the old one. Money for the new one came from the
mayor's Promotion Fund of Grants for the Arts, part of the hotel
tax fund.

   The triangle will be painted Mardi Gras pink at a painting party
on Sunday.

   &QL;

   &UR; WHO SAID WHAT &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; ``There are plenty of liberals out there with weapons. I also
think there are more conservatives in the Hollywood closet than
there are homosexuals.''

   _ Charlton Heston, president of the National Rifle Association,
in People.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0381 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:57 ',
			header: '
A5535 &Cx1f; ttd-z
r f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NATSEMI-SFCHRON &LR;      06-11 0457
',
			slug: ' BC-NATSEMI-SFCHRON ',
			headline: '
 
',
			trailer: '
   Santa Clara-based National Semi had warned Wall Street that its
earnings would not paint a pretty picture for either the last
quarter or the next one. National has been mired in the same slump
as the rest of the microchip industry.

   ``I wish I could be the first to tell you that there's a light
at the end of the tunnel, but I'm afraid to tell you it was only a
train,'' National chief executive Brian Halla said in a telephone
interview.

   Halla said some conditions continue to improve, but the company
remains ``neutral to pessimistic.''

   But some reports show the industry rebounding in the second half
of this year.

   ``They are probably bouncing along the bottom. They just haven't
seen the uptick yet,'' said Mark Edelstone, senior semiconductor
analyst with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in San Francisco.

   Asian economies, where chip companies did big business until the
currency crisis that struck last fall, are starting to show signs
of life, Edelstone said. He added that a glut of personal computer
inventory, which hurt chip sales, is starting to ease up, which
should lead to more chip demand.

   Edelstone said National's Cyrix division had troubles in the
quarter, as did its networking business. While Cyrix is improving,
``the jury is still out on networking,'' Edelstone said.

   National cut 1,400 jobs, or 10 percent of its workforce, earlier
this year, but Halla doesn't foresee any more cuts. ``We've got the
people in place to do the job that needs to be done,'' he said.
``We're going to hunker down and tough it out for the next couple
of quarters.''

   The move to cheaper PCs, and National's initiatives to make
computer chips that perform more and more functions, both bode well
for the company's future, Halla said.

   For the fourth quarter, National's losses compared with a profit
of $57.4 million (36 cents a share) in the same quarter last year.
Revenues fell to $510 million from $651.7 million.

   The quarter that closed May 31 also closed the books on a rough
fiscal year. Including one-time charges, National lost $98.6
million (60 cents per share), compared with net income of $1.6
million (1 cent) in the previous year.

   National announced the results yesterday morning. After its
stock hit a low for the year on Wednesday, it rebounded yesterday
to $15.38, up 25 cents.
',
			body: '


  
 (For use by clients of the New York Times News Service)  
 
 National Semiconductor Reports $69 Million Loss in 4th Quarter   By Dan Fost  
 c.1998 San Francisco Chronicle  
 
Putting concrete numbers to what chip industry watchers already
knew, National Semiconductor announced yesterday that it lost $69.3
million (42 cents per share) in its most recent fiscal quarter.

',
			paragraphs: '
   Santa Clara-based National Semi had warned Wall Street that its
earnings would not paint a pretty picture for either the last
quarter or the next one. National has been mired in the same slump
as the rest of the microchip industry.

   ``I wish I could be the first to tell you that there's a light
at the end of the tunnel, but I'm afraid to tell you it was only a
train,'' National chief executive Brian Halla said in a telephone
interview.

   Halla said some conditions continue to improve, but the company
remains ``neutral to pessimistic.''

   But some reports show the industry rebounding in the second half
of this year.

   ``They are probably bouncing along the bottom. They just haven't
seen the uptick yet,'' said Mark Edelstone, senior semiconductor
analyst with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in San Francisco.

   Asian economies, where chip companies did big business until the
currency crisis that struck last fall, are starting to show signs
of life, Edelstone said. He added that a glut of personal computer
inventory, which hurt chip sales, is starting to ease up, which
should lead to more chip demand.

   Edelstone said National's Cyrix division had troubles in the
quarter, as did its networking business. While Cyrix is improving,
``the jury is still out on networking,'' Edelstone said.

   National cut 1,400 jobs, or 10 percent of its workforce, earlier
this year, but Halla doesn't foresee any more cuts. ``We've got the
people in place to do the job that needs to be done,'' he said.
``We're going to hunker down and tough it out for the next couple
of quarters.''

   The move to cheaper PCs, and National's initiatives to make
computer chips that perform more and more functions, both bode well
for the company's future, Halla said.

   For the fourth quarter, National's losses compared with a profit
of $57.4 million (36 cents a share) in the same quarter last year.
Revenues fell to $510 million from $651.7 million.

   The quarter that closed May 31 also closed the books on a rough
fiscal year. Including one-time charges, National lost $98.6
million (60 cents per share), compared with net income of $1.6
million (1 cent) in the previous year.

   National announced the results yesterday morning. After its
stock hit a low for the year on Wednesday, it rebounded yesterday
to $15.38, up 25 cents.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0382 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:57 ',
			header: '
A5536 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-COL-STADIUM-NYT &LR;      06-11 0763
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-COL-STADIUM-NYT ',
			headline: '
COMMENTARY: THANKS, BOSS, FOR ALL YOUR HELP 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Try as he may, this benighted taxpayer cannot for the
life of him figure out why New York City's leaders have let their
budget _ our budget _ be taken hostage by George Steinbrenner of
Tampa, Fla.

   On the one hand, it is tempting to just sit back and take in the
spectacle of the mayor and members of the City Council turning
their normally placid budget negotiations into fiscal rollerball. A
little mutual pummeling is probably good for all their souls. But
temptation turns to perplexity when the thought dawns that this is
happening only because of Steinbrenner, the unlovable principal
owner of the very lovable New York Yankees.

   You may, if you wish, believe Mayor Rudolph Giuliani when he
insists that it is about reining in supposedly profligate spending
by the council. You may, if you wish, believe that the mayor sat up
half the night in a dither because council members approved such
shocking items as $727 for a police safety program on Staten Island
and $2,400 for a Sanitation Department project in Queens.

   But every New Yorker over the age of 6 knows that this is not an
ideological war over the public purse. It is high-octane politics,
with the budget ending up as a POW in the battle over whether the
city should pay for a Manhattan playground that Steinbrenner wants
for his Bronx team.

   Not a penny, says Peter Vallone, the council speaker and a
Democratic candidate for governor. Well aware that polls show that
most New Yorkers agree, and perhaps looking to pump up the voter
turnout in November, he says a referendum should decide the issue.
No way, Giuliani replies.

   On this one, many would agree with the mayor when he argues, as
he did again Thursday, that it is ``a total abdication of
leadership'' to pass the buck to the voters on a matter that
elected representatives are usually paid to decide. That is all New
York needs: to become like proposition-happy California, calling
for a show of hands practically every time someone asks permission
to leave the room.

   The city, Giuliani noted, has given many businesses all sorts of
financial help without anyone clamoring for a plebiscite. Why make
an exception for the Yankees?

   What he did not mention is that the referendum talk began only
after many New Yorkers began to suspect that he was plumping harder
for Steinbrenner's interests than the taxpayers'.

   When the Yankees' boss says he needs Manhattan, Giuliani's head
bobs up and down. When Steinbrenner complains that no one journeys
to the Bronx to see his truly magnificent team, Giuliani gives fans
his own wrist-slapping. When the Boss calls Yankee Stadium
decrepit, the mayor provides the echo, even though his own
buildings commissioner says the ball park could stand for another
75 years.

   The reality is that Steinbrenner is making money hand over fist.

   Going into Friday night's game, the Yankees' 1998 home
attendance is 990,458, or 30 percent more than it was at the same
point last season. They are on a pace to draw 3.3 million fans, far
and away the most in team history. True, some other teams are doing
better, conspicuously Baltimore and Cleveland in their shiny retro
parks. But Steinbrenner's turnstile envy hardly means, as he and
the mayor repeatedly imply, that he is doing poorly in the dreaded
Bronx.

   Quite the opposite. A report from the city's Independent Budget
Office shows that the Yankees are baseball's top moneymakers,
thanks to the fat television contracts they get by being in this
media capital. Revenues totaled $129.9 million in 1996. Even when
it comes to the luxury suites and club seats that Steinbrenner
lusts for in a new park, other surveys show that no owner operating
in a baseball-only stadium earns more than Steinbrenner does right
now.

   How does he repay a city that treats him well? By
nickel-and-diming it at every turn on the stadium rent he pays.

   Under a sweetheart deal going back many years, he can deduct
maintenance costs from his rent bill. Every year, auditors for the
city comptroller find that he inflates his costs, and they have to
scale them back, typically by 15 percent. Even so, Steinbrenner has
managed to shrink his city rent in the last decade to a paltry
average of $210,000 a year.

   Is it any wonder, then, that few New Yorkers besides the mayor
are leaping to his side now, especially when his ambitions make
hostages of them and their budget?
',
			body: '


  (lb) 
 By CLYDE HABERMAN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Try as he may, this benighted taxpayer cannot for the
life of him figure out why New York City's leaders have let their
budget _ our budget _ be taken hostage by George Steinbrenner of
Tampa, Fla.

   On the one hand, it is tempting to just sit back and take in the
spectacle of the mayor and members of the City Council turning
their normally placid budget negotiations into fiscal rollerball. A
little mutual pummeling is probably good for all their souls. But
temptation turns to perplexity when the thought dawns that this is
happening only because of Steinbrenner, the unlovable principal
owner of the very lovable New York Yankees.

   You may, if you wish, believe Mayor Rudolph Giuliani when he
insists that it is about reining in supposedly profligate spending
by the council. You may, if you wish, believe that the mayor sat up
half the night in a dither because council members approved such
shocking items as $727 for a police safety program on Staten Island
and $2,400 for a Sanitation Department project in Queens.

   But every New Yorker over the age of 6 knows that this is not an
ideological war over the public purse. It is high-octane politics,
with the budget ending up as a POW in the battle over whether the
city should pay for a Manhattan playground that Steinbrenner wants
for his Bronx team.

   Not a penny, says Peter Vallone, the council speaker and a
Democratic candidate for governor. Well aware that polls show that
most New Yorkers agree, and perhaps looking to pump up the voter
turnout in November, he says a referendum should decide the issue.
No way, Giuliani replies.

   On this one, many would agree with the mayor when he argues, as
he did again Thursday, that it is ``a total abdication of
leadership'' to pass the buck to the voters on a matter that
elected representatives are usually paid to decide. That is all New
York needs: to become like proposition-happy California, calling
for a show of hands practically every time someone asks permission
to leave the room.

   The city, Giuliani noted, has given many businesses all sorts of
financial help without anyone clamoring for a plebiscite. Why make
an exception for the Yankees?

   What he did not mention is that the referendum talk began only
after many New Yorkers began to suspect that he was plumping harder
for Steinbrenner's interests than the taxpayers'.

   When the Yankees' boss says he needs Manhattan, Giuliani's head
bobs up and down. When Steinbrenner complains that no one journeys
to the Bronx to see his truly magnificent team, Giuliani gives fans
his own wrist-slapping. When the Boss calls Yankee Stadium
decrepit, the mayor provides the echo, even though his own
buildings commissioner says the ball park could stand for another
75 years.

   The reality is that Steinbrenner is making money hand over fist.

   Going into Friday night's game, the Yankees' 1998 home
attendance is 990,458, or 30 percent more than it was at the same
point last season. They are on a pace to draw 3.3 million fans, far
and away the most in team history. True, some other teams are doing
better, conspicuously Baltimore and Cleveland in their shiny retro
parks. But Steinbrenner's turnstile envy hardly means, as he and
the mayor repeatedly imply, that he is doing poorly in the dreaded
Bronx.

   Quite the opposite. A report from the city's Independent Budget
Office shows that the Yankees are baseball's top moneymakers,
thanks to the fat television contracts they get by being in this
media capital. Revenues totaled $129.9 million in 1996. Even when
it comes to the luxury suites and club seats that Steinbrenner
lusts for in a new park, other surveys show that no owner operating
in a baseball-only stadium earns more than Steinbrenner does right
now.

   How does he repay a city that treats him well? By
nickel-and-diming it at every turn on the stadium rent he pays.

   Under a sweetheart deal going back many years, he can deduct
maintenance costs from his rent bill. Every year, auditors for the
city comptroller find that he inflates his costs, and they have to
scale them back, typically by 15 percent. Even so, Steinbrenner has
managed to shrink his city rent in the last decade to a paltry
average of $210,000 a year.

   Is it any wonder, then, that few New Yorkers besides the mayor
are leaping to his side now, especially when his ambitions make
hostages of them and their budget?
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0383 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:57 ',
			header: '
A5537 &Cx1f; ttd-z
r l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-LEAH-PERSONALS-SFCHRO     06-11 0725
',
			slug: ' BC-LEAH-PERSONALS-SFCHRON ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; HEARTBREAKING VISIT TO THE WHITE HOUSE &LR;

   The joy of attending Tuesday night's White House state dinner
for South Korean President  &UR; Kim Dae-jung &LR;  was muted for one
disabled guest when he stood up from his wheelchair to greet the
president, and his pants fell to his ankles. He remained that way _
with no underwear on _ for 10 seconds, until a fellow guest came to
his aid.

   &UR; Don Imus &LR;  laughed about it all morning on MSNBC, but his bosses
refused to allow him to air the tape. A C-SPAN broadcast of dinner
highlights didn't include footage, but a network spokesman said
footage should have been included. ``A decision was made to protect
this person,'' a self-criticizing  &UR; Rich Fahle &LR;  told the Washington
Post, ``and that's not what C-SPAN is around to do.''

   Fox News Channel showed the tape, couching the incident as one
of life's embarrassing moments. The Post itself ran two stories
mentioning the incident, because, said managing editor
 &UR; Robert &LR;   &UR; Kaiser &LR; , ``a lot of important people saw it and it should
be noted.''

   &UR; Jim Dickson &LR; , an official of the National Organization on
Disability, said it is always news ``if anyone's pants fall down
while shaking hands with the president. ... I don't think we want
special treatment as a disabled group.''

   &QL;

   &UR; REASONS TO WATCH &LR;

   Buffalo  &UR; Bob Smith &LR;  makes his QVC debut Friday at 3 p.m.,
selling such treasured souvenirs as the 26-inch Howdy Doody
Ventriloquist doll and the Howdy Doody T-shirt. This homage to the
days of Doodyville takes place on the 50th anniversary of the TV
show. Doodyware joins a distinguished list of QVC products
including those of the Grateful Dead.

   A one-hour QVC sale of $75,000 worth of Dead merchandise _ CDs,
T-shirts and posters _ sold out on June 5 even though the live
broadcast, from Novato, was late at night.

   In 1974, when the Dead had its own record company, there was
``serious discussion,'' said Dead publicist  &UR; Dennis McNally &LR; ,
``about selling records out of ice cream trucks.'' The QVC sale
``was in the grand tradition of How Strange Can You Get?'' he said.

   &QL;

   &UR; FIGHTIN' WORDS &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; _ Writing in Vanity Fair about  &UR; Lillian Ross &LR; ' and  &UR; Ved &LR; 
 &UR; Mehta &LR; 's new books on life at  &UR; William Shawn &LR; 's New Yorker,  &UR; James &LR; 
 &UR; Wolcott &LR;  takes several swipes at  &UR; Tina Brown &LR; , editor of the rival
Conde Nast publication. Wolcott says that Brown encouraged Ross to
write about her long-time affair with Shawn, because she had a
``desire to pollute and undercut the moral high ground of the Shawn
era, which the present regime finds burdensome. Tarnishing Shawn's
halo makes recent shenanigans look less whory, or so the theory
goes.'' Brown's contract with the New Yorker expires on July 1.

   _ London's latest literary feud is between American
travel-writer and novelist  &UR; Paul &LR;   &UR; Theroux &LR;  and essayist and
novelist &UR; V.S. Naipaul &LR; , once his close friend. According to the
Sunday Times of London, the unpleasantness began when first
editions of books that Theroux had inscribed to Naipaul wound up in
the catalog of an antique book dealer. Naipaul's second wife is
said to have sold them. Theroux's forthcoming book, ``Sir Vidia's
Shadow: A Friendship Across Five Continents,'' is a memoir of their
relationship, and parts are said to be ``pretty vicious,''
according to the New York Post.

   The Houghton Mifflin catalog description says the book tells
``how a friendship waxes and wanes between two men who have set
themselves on the perilous journey of a writing life.''

   &QL;

   &UR; PAINTING THE HILL PINK &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; The Friends of the Pink Triangle, who place a pink triangle
atop Twin Peaks for San Francisco's Lesbian and Gay Pride Freedom
Day parade, say that this year's icon will be 120 feet across,
twice as big as the old one. Money for the new one came from the
mayor's Promotion Fund of Grants for the Arts, part of the hotel
tax fund.

   The triangle will be painted Mardi Gras pink at a painting party
on Sunday.

   &QL;

   &UR; WHO SAID WHAT &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; ``There are plenty of liberals out there with weapons. I also
think there are more conservatives in the Hollywood closet than
there are homosexuals.''

   _ Charlton Heston, president of the National Rifle Association,
in People.
',
			body: '

  
 (Eds: This story also moved in the ``a'' national news file)  
 By LEAH GARCHIK  
 c.1998 San Francisco Chronicle  

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; HEARTBREAKING VISIT TO THE WHITE HOUSE &LR;

   The joy of attending Tuesday night's White House state dinner
for South Korean President  &UR; Kim Dae-jung &LR;  was muted for one
disabled guest when he stood up from his wheelchair to greet the
president, and his pants fell to his ankles. He remained that way _
with no underwear on _ for 10 seconds, until a fellow guest came to
his aid.

   &UR; Don Imus &LR;  laughed about it all morning on MSNBC, but his bosses
refused to allow him to air the tape. A C-SPAN broadcast of dinner
highlights didn't include footage, but a network spokesman said
footage should have been included. ``A decision was made to protect
this person,'' a self-criticizing  &UR; Rich Fahle &LR;  told the Washington
Post, ``and that's not what C-SPAN is around to do.''

   Fox News Channel showed the tape, couching the incident as one
of life's embarrassing moments. The Post itself ran two stories
mentioning the incident, because, said managing editor
 &UR; Robert &LR;   &UR; Kaiser &LR; , ``a lot of important people saw it and it should
be noted.''

   &UR; Jim Dickson &LR; , an official of the National Organization on
Disability, said it is always news ``if anyone's pants fall down
while shaking hands with the president. ... I don't think we want
special treatment as a disabled group.''

   &QL;

   &UR; REASONS TO WATCH &LR;

   Buffalo  &UR; Bob Smith &LR;  makes his QVC debut Friday at 3 p.m.,
selling such treasured souvenirs as the 26-inch Howdy Doody
Ventriloquist doll and the Howdy Doody T-shirt. This homage to the
days of Doodyville takes place on the 50th anniversary of the TV
show. Doodyware joins a distinguished list of QVC products
including those of the Grateful Dead.

   A one-hour QVC sale of $75,000 worth of Dead merchandise _ CDs,
T-shirts and posters _ sold out on June 5 even though the live
broadcast, from Novato, was late at night.

   In 1974, when the Dead had its own record company, there was
``serious discussion,'' said Dead publicist  &UR; Dennis McNally &LR; ,
``about selling records out of ice cream trucks.'' The QVC sale
``was in the grand tradition of How Strange Can You Get?'' he said.

   &QL;

   &UR; FIGHTIN' WORDS &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; _ Writing in Vanity Fair about  &UR; Lillian Ross &LR; ' and  &UR; Ved &LR; 
 &UR; Mehta &LR; 's new books on life at  &UR; William Shawn &LR; 's New Yorker,  &UR; James &LR; 
 &UR; Wolcott &LR;  takes several swipes at  &UR; Tina Brown &LR; , editor of the rival
Conde Nast publication. Wolcott says that Brown encouraged Ross to
write about her long-time affair with Shawn, because she had a
``desire to pollute and undercut the moral high ground of the Shawn
era, which the present regime finds burdensome. Tarnishing Shawn's
halo makes recent shenanigans look less whory, or so the theory
goes.'' Brown's contract with the New Yorker expires on July 1.

   _ London's latest literary feud is between American
travel-writer and novelist  &UR; Paul &LR;   &UR; Theroux &LR;  and essayist and
novelist &UR; V.S. Naipaul &LR; , once his close friend. According to the
Sunday Times of London, the unpleasantness began when first
editions of books that Theroux had inscribed to Naipaul wound up in
the catalog of an antique book dealer. Naipaul's second wife is
said to have sold them. Theroux's forthcoming book, ``Sir Vidia's
Shadow: A Friendship Across Five Continents,'' is a memoir of their
relationship, and parts are said to be ``pretty vicious,''
according to the New York Post.

   The Houghton Mifflin catalog description says the book tells
``how a friendship waxes and wanes between two men who have set
themselves on the perilous journey of a writing life.''

   &QL;

   &UR; PAINTING THE HILL PINK &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; The Friends of the Pink Triangle, who place a pink triangle
atop Twin Peaks for San Francisco's Lesbian and Gay Pride Freedom
Day parade, say that this year's icon will be 120 feet across,
twice as big as the old one. Money for the new one came from the
mayor's Promotion Fund of Grants for the Arts, part of the hotel
tax fund.

   The triangle will be painted Mardi Gras pink at a painting party
on Sunday.

   &QL;

   &UR; WHO SAID WHAT &LR;

   &UR;  &LR; ``There are plenty of liberals out there with weapons. I also
think there are more conservatives in the Hollywood closet than
there are homosexuals.''

   _ Charlton Heston, president of the National Rifle Association,
in People.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0384 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:58 ',
			header: '
A5539 &Cx1f; ttd-z
r w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-INDIAN-CASINOS-SFCHRO     06-11 0783
',
			slug: ' BC-INDIAN-CASINOS-SFCHRON ',
			headline: '
STATE TRIBES ENLIST WASHINGTON'S HELP IN GAMING DISPUTE 
',
			trailer: '
   Representatives of dozens of California Indian tribes concluded
a major assault Wednesday in their war with California Gov. Pete
Wilson over casino gambling on Indian reservations.

   More than 100 tribal leaders descended on Washington, lobbying
members of Congress, holding press conferences and talking with
newspaper editorial boards. They enlisted Washington spinmeister
Lanny Davis, former special counsel to President Clinton, to
represent them. And they hired a phalanx of Washington public
relations firms that set up a computer-fortified ``war room'' in
the Sequoia Room of the Capitol Hill Hyatt, stocked with a huge
supply of Pepsi and lemon meringue pies.

   The payoff was the tribes' first face-to-face meeting Wednesday
with Attorney General Janet Reno. But Reno refused to get involved
in the fight, saying ``the government is not a party'' to the
dispute.

   Tribal representatives said they are nonetheless encouraged
because Reno assured them that she would urge Wilson to negotiate a
long-sought gaming agreement. Reno added that if the governor
refused, the Indians could sue the state.

   Under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, states are
required to negotiate casino gambling agreements with tribes.

   Wilson signed a gaming compact with one Southern California
tribe, the Pala band near San Diego, that would limit the number
and type of slot machines it can use and has sought to apply it to
all other tribes. The other tribes have refused to join the
agreement, insisting that federal law requires Wilson to negotiate
a broader deal with them.

   But at a more basic level, the dispute also touches upon the
Indians' status as sovereign nations created long ago by treaties
with the U.S. government.

   The Indians note that they got the worst end of those bargains,
being largely consigned to destitution on reservations. But as
separate nations, they retained their independence from state laws
and regulations.

   Now that they are getting rich on casinos _ some estimates put
their annual revenues at $500 million _ the tribes complain that
the government is trying again to strip them of their
self-reliance.

   The Wilson administration insisted Wednesday's effort in
Washington had zero effect.

   ``Frankly, the tribes are simply spinning faster than a
merry-go-round,'' said Daniel Kolkey, Wilson's legal affairs
secretary who negotiated the Pala compact. ``Nothing changed as a
result of that meeting.''

   Kolkey said Reno aides assured the Wilson administration that
the federal government ``is going to continue to pursue its
enforcement actions against those tribes that are violating federal
law by engaging in illegal gaming operations.''

   The issue is currently being litigated in federal and state
courts. Last month, U.S. attorneys in California began proceedings
to seize 14,000 gaming machines after the tribes failed to meet a
Justice Department deadline to either sign a compact with the state
or turn off the machines while negotiating a better agreement.

   A series of hearings on the seizures is scheduled, the first on
June 29 in Sacramento.

   Davis declared the tribal meeting with Reno a victory.

   Kolkey dismissed the claim as hype.

   ``The bottom line is the state hasn't changed its position, and
the United States hasn't changed its position, and the state and
the federal government are united in seeking to uphold the rule of
law,'' he said. ``California is a non-casino state.''

   California law permits ``lottery'' slot machines, where winners
divide the pot of players' money. The Indian casino machines use a
``banking'' system as in Las Vegas and New Jersey, where players
get a predetermined payout and the casino collects the rest.

   Wilson has refused to negotiate with tribes using what he calls
illegal machines. He sent a letter to the California congressional
delegation saying, ``Stripped of their rhetoric, these tribes want
to preserve their monopoly over unregulated and illegal gambling
and therefore seek to persuade U.S. law enforcement to stop
enforcing federal laws against those tribes who are violating it.''

   Davis said tribes are not insisting on using illegal slots, but
are making only the most ``modest'' request: that Wilson negotiate
with them in good faith.
',
			body: '


   By CAROLYN LOCHHEAD  
 c.1998 San Francisco Chronicle  
    WASHINGTON _ Native Americans lost the great 19th century
Indian Wars with the U.S. government. But weaponry and battle
tactics have changed in late 20th century Washington, and this time
around, the Indians may stand a better chance of winning.

',
			paragraphs: '
   Representatives of dozens of California Indian tribes concluded
a major assault Wednesday in their war with California Gov. Pete
Wilson over casino gambling on Indian reservations.

   More than 100 tribal leaders descended on Washington, lobbying
members of Congress, holding press conferences and talking with
newspaper editorial boards. They enlisted Washington spinmeister
Lanny Davis, former special counsel to President Clinton, to
represent them. And they hired a phalanx of Washington public
relations firms that set up a computer-fortified ``war room'' in
the Sequoia Room of the Capitol Hill Hyatt, stocked with a huge
supply of Pepsi and lemon meringue pies.

   The payoff was the tribes' first face-to-face meeting Wednesday
with Attorney General Janet Reno. But Reno refused to get involved
in the fight, saying ``the government is not a party'' to the
dispute.

   Tribal representatives said they are nonetheless encouraged
because Reno assured them that she would urge Wilson to negotiate a
long-sought gaming agreement. Reno added that if the governor
refused, the Indians could sue the state.

   Under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, states are
required to negotiate casino gambling agreements with tribes.

   Wilson signed a gaming compact with one Southern California
tribe, the Pala band near San Diego, that would limit the number
and type of slot machines it can use and has sought to apply it to
all other tribes. The other tribes have refused to join the
agreement, insisting that federal law requires Wilson to negotiate
a broader deal with them.

   But at a more basic level, the dispute also touches upon the
Indians' status as sovereign nations created long ago by treaties
with the U.S. government.

   The Indians note that they got the worst end of those bargains,
being largely consigned to destitution on reservations. But as
separate nations, they retained their independence from state laws
and regulations.

   Now that they are getting rich on casinos _ some estimates put
their annual revenues at $500 million _ the tribes complain that
the government is trying again to strip them of their
self-reliance.

   The Wilson administration insisted Wednesday's effort in
Washington had zero effect.

   ``Frankly, the tribes are simply spinning faster than a
merry-go-round,'' said Daniel Kolkey, Wilson's legal affairs
secretary who negotiated the Pala compact. ``Nothing changed as a
result of that meeting.''

   Kolkey said Reno aides assured the Wilson administration that
the federal government ``is going to continue to pursue its
enforcement actions against those tribes that are violating federal
law by engaging in illegal gaming operations.''

   The issue is currently being litigated in federal and state
courts. Last month, U.S. attorneys in California began proceedings
to seize 14,000 gaming machines after the tribes failed to meet a
Justice Department deadline to either sign a compact with the state
or turn off the machines while negotiating a better agreement.

   A series of hearings on the seizures is scheduled, the first on
June 29 in Sacramento.

   Davis declared the tribal meeting with Reno a victory.

   Kolkey dismissed the claim as hype.

   ``The bottom line is the state hasn't changed its position, and
the United States hasn't changed its position, and the state and
the federal government are united in seeking to uphold the rule of
law,'' he said. ``California is a non-casino state.''

   California law permits ``lottery'' slot machines, where winners
divide the pot of players' money. The Indian casino machines use a
``banking'' system as in Las Vegas and New Jersey, where players
get a predetermined payout and the casino collects the rest.

   Wilson has refused to negotiate with tribes using what he calls
illegal machines. He sent a letter to the California congressional
delegation saying, ``Stripped of their rhetoric, these tribes want
to preserve their monopoly over unregulated and illegal gambling
and therefore seek to persuade U.S. law enforcement to stop
enforcing federal laws against those tribes who are violating it.''

   Davis said tribes are not insisting on using illegal slots, but
are making only the most ``modest'' request: that Wilson negotiate
with them in good faith.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0385 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:58 ',
			header: '
A5541 &Cx1f; tta-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MAGAZINE-FABRICATION-     06-11 0902
',
			slug: ' BC-MAGAZINE-FABRICATION-2TAKES-NYT ',
			headline: '
MAGAZINE FINDS WRITER'S FABRICATIONS 
',
			trailer: '
   There was the article last February about the three
twentysomething White House interns sitting hunched over vodka
martinis in a Washinton bar, ``feverishly speculating about the
details of President Clinton's sex life.''

   In that same issue, there was the article about how
environmental special interest groups, like ``Truth in Science, a
Christian organization skeptical of global warming,'' and the
``Association for the Advancement of Sound Water Policy,'' use
weather reports to advance their own agendas.

   And in December 1997, there was a piece about advertisements
encouraging employees to rat on their bosses. ``Ads by a Texas
drug-testing lab encourage employees to reveal whether their boss
is using narcotics by sending in a few hairs and $115,'' the
article said.

   All false. Not one of the above anecdotes or quotes or sources
existed. They are instead the handiwork of 25-year-old Stephen
Glass, a writer who it now appears made up part or all of these and
24 other articles in The New Republic over the last three years.

   Many details of the case have been reported since early May,
when The New Republic dismissed Glass for fabricating an article
about a computer hacker. But after a monthlong internal
investigation, the magazine has offered a much fuller account of
the falsifications in an editor's note, published in the issue due
on newsstands Friday.

   It is an account that would place the case among journalism's
notorious scandals, like Janet Cooke's fabrication of the life of
an inner-city youth that won the Pulitzer Prize for The Washington
Post, and the case of R. Foster Winans, a Wall Street Journal
columnist who went to prison for trading stock ahead of publication
of his columns.

   The inquiry found that Glass had completely fabricated six
articles and had manufactured material in parts of 21 other pieces.
Glass did not return calls seeking comment but on Thursday, Glass'
attorney, Gerson Zweifach, said in an interview that his client had
confirmed the findings.

   The New Republic is not the only publication that has gone back
over Glass' work in the last few weeks. Glass published articles in
Rolling Stone, George and Harper's _ all of which have conducted
investigations of their own and discontinued their contracts with
Glass. The New York Times magazine was about to publish a piece but
canceled it when it learned of the case.

   As Glass' grave offenses have come to light, the young promising
journalist _a former fact-checker himself, no less _ has emerged as
an enimgatic, effective illusionist, who succeeded in duping even
the most experienced of editors. His systematic, apparently
escalating fakery eluded three respected editors at The New
Republic: Andrew Sullivan, Michael Kelly and Charles Lane.

   The case has prompted a flurry of soul-searching in the media
about the effectiveness of fact-checking departments, whether young
ambitious reporters need to be reined in and to what extent editors
should second-guess their reporters' accounts, especially those
based on anonymous sources.

   But editors who worked with Glass say fact-checking wasn't the
problem, though it should have been more stringent and will be in
the future. The problem was simply that they trusted him.

   ``It is not that people at the magazine would look at a Stephen
Glass story and not notice that he had some extraordinary vivid
anecdote _ something that was unusually good,'' said Kelly, who is
now a columnist at National Journal. ``He had developed a
particular reputation for being able to do this sort of thing over
and over again. So, I am afraid there was a certain reaction built
up over time of, `Here's an extraordinary anecdote; that's Steve
Glass for you.' Because he did seem like the kind of reporter who
could and did deliver the goods to an unusual degree.''

   Indeed, Glass might have kept right on passing fiction off as
fact had it not been for a dogged editor at the Web site Forbes
Digital Tool, who was unable to track down one of the sources in
Glass' hackers piece. It was when the editor, Adam Penenberg, found
that nothing checked out in the article that he called Lane, the
editor of The New Republic.

   And the rest has been a study in the ignominious unraveling of a
career. Lane said on Thursday that he interrogated Glass about the
hackers article, at first with the help of Penenberg. Then Lane
demanded that Glass drive him to the site of a conference featured
in Glass' article that had supposedly taken place on the previous
Sunday.

   He said Glass took him to the lobby of an office building where
a security guard and an engineer queried by Lane said the building
is closed on Sundays and that there was no such conference. Glass
finally confessed.

   On June 1, The New Republic published the first of its mea
culpas, an editor's note retracting the hackers article and
apologizing for three other Glass articles that it could not
substantiate: ``Monica Sells,'' Glass' account of a Maryland
convention of political novelty vendors; ``Plotters,'' his account
of a Virginia meeting of anti-Clinton activists; and parts of
``Praised Be Greenspan,'' about activities at New York investment
banks.

   nn
',
			body: '


  (See also MAGAZINE-CHECKERS) 
(sw) 
 By ROBIN POGREBIN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   There was the article last February about the three
twentysomething White House interns sitting hunched over vodka
martinis in a Washinton bar, ``feverishly speculating about the
details of President Clinton's sex life.''

   In that same issue, there was the article about how
environmental special interest groups, like ``Truth in Science, a
Christian organization skeptical of global warming,'' and the
``Association for the Advancement of Sound Water Policy,'' use
weather reports to advance their own agendas.

   And in December 1997, there was a piece about advertisements
encouraging employees to rat on their bosses. ``Ads by a Texas
drug-testing lab encourage employees to reveal whether their boss
is using narcotics by sending in a few hairs and $115,'' the
article said.

   All false. Not one of the above anecdotes or quotes or sources
existed. They are instead the handiwork of 25-year-old Stephen
Glass, a writer who it now appears made up part or all of these and
24 other articles in The New Republic over the last three years.

   Many details of the case have been reported since early May,
when The New Republic dismissed Glass for fabricating an article
about a computer hacker. But after a monthlong internal
investigation, the magazine has offered a much fuller account of
the falsifications in an editor's note, published in the issue due
on newsstands Friday.

   It is an account that would place the case among journalism's
notorious scandals, like Janet Cooke's fabrication of the life of
an inner-city youth that won the Pulitzer Prize for The Washington
Post, and the case of R. Foster Winans, a Wall Street Journal
columnist who went to prison for trading stock ahead of publication
of his columns.

   The inquiry found that Glass had completely fabricated six
articles and had manufactured material in parts of 21 other pieces.
Glass did not return calls seeking comment but on Thursday, Glass'
attorney, Gerson Zweifach, said in an interview that his client had
confirmed the findings.

   The New Republic is not the only publication that has gone back
over Glass' work in the last few weeks. Glass published articles in
Rolling Stone, George and Harper's _ all of which have conducted
investigations of their own and discontinued their contracts with
Glass. The New York Times magazine was about to publish a piece but
canceled it when it learned of the case.

   As Glass' grave offenses have come to light, the young promising
journalist _a former fact-checker himself, no less _ has emerged as
an enimgatic, effective illusionist, who succeeded in duping even
the most experienced of editors. His systematic, apparently
escalating fakery eluded three respected editors at The New
Republic: Andrew Sullivan, Michael Kelly and Charles Lane.

   The case has prompted a flurry of soul-searching in the media
about the effectiveness of fact-checking departments, whether young
ambitious reporters need to be reined in and to what extent editors
should second-guess their reporters' accounts, especially those
based on anonymous sources.

   But editors who worked with Glass say fact-checking wasn't the
problem, though it should have been more stringent and will be in
the future. The problem was simply that they trusted him.

   ``It is not that people at the magazine would look at a Stephen
Glass story and not notice that he had some extraordinary vivid
anecdote _ something that was unusually good,'' said Kelly, who is
now a columnist at National Journal. ``He had developed a
particular reputation for being able to do this sort of thing over
and over again. So, I am afraid there was a certain reaction built
up over time of, `Here's an extraordinary anecdote; that's Steve
Glass for you.' Because he did seem like the kind of reporter who
could and did deliver the goods to an unusual degree.''

   Indeed, Glass might have kept right on passing fiction off as
fact had it not been for a dogged editor at the Web site Forbes
Digital Tool, who was unable to track down one of the sources in
Glass' hackers piece. It was when the editor, Adam Penenberg, found
that nothing checked out in the article that he called Lane, the
editor of The New Republic.

   And the rest has been a study in the ignominious unraveling of a
career. Lane said on Thursday that he interrogated Glass about the
hackers article, at first with the help of Penenberg. Then Lane
demanded that Glass drive him to the site of a conference featured
in Glass' article that had supposedly taken place on the previous
Sunday.

   He said Glass took him to the lobby of an office building where
a security guard and an engineer queried by Lane said the building
is closed on Sundays and that there was no such conference. Glass
finally confessed.

   On June 1, The New Republic published the first of its mea
culpas, an editor's note retracting the hackers article and
apologizing for three other Glass articles that it could not
substantiate: ``Monica Sells,'' Glass' account of a Maryland
convention of political novelty vendors; ``Plotters,'' his account
of a Virginia meeting of anti-Clinton activists; and parts of
``Praised Be Greenspan,'' about activities at New York investment
banks.

   nn
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0386 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:59 ',
			header: '
A5542 &Cx1f; ttd-z
r w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CENSUS-SAMPLING-SFCHR     06-11 0657
',
			slug: ' BC-CENSUS-SAMPLING-SFCHRON ',
			headline: '
JUDGES HEAR ARGUMENTS THURSDAY ON SAMPLING AS CENSUS METHOD 
',
			trailer: '
   California and the Bay Area have a lot at stake in the case
because of large and fast-growing minority populations that have
been undercounted by traditional census techniques. The census is
used to set voting district lines and as the baseline for
allocation of billions of federal dollars.

   Officially, the lawsuit was filed by the U.S. House of
Representatives to stop the Census Bureau from using statistical
means to correct the population count. But the main forces behind
the lawsuit are House Republicans _ led by Speaker Newt Gingrich _
who have loudly expressed concern about the accuracy of statistical
corrections and, less vocally, have worried that finding missed
minorities will create more Democratic congressional seats.

   On the other side, many cities, including San Francisco, San
Jose, Oakland and Los Angeles, have been deeply involved in pushing
for a statistical fix, often called sampling, to make up for the
missing people.

   Those cities _ plus 16 others _ have filed briefs on behalf of
the Census Bureau.

   ``We're involved because if cities are undercounted, it has a
direct relationship to federal and state budget allocations. There
is a lot of money involved here,'' said San Francisco City Attorney
Louise Renne. ``We know we've been undercounted, and we believe
that the sampling program is the best way to go and less likely to
result in undercounting.''

   Opponents, however, will argue that statistical corrections
aren't foolproof and can actually introduce more errors. Moreover,
they say, the Constitution calls for an ``actual enumeration'' of
the population, which they argue means a pure head count.

   ``The (pro-sampling) side argues that this improves accuracy,
but it turns out that when you get to the detail of how sampling is
done, it may not be the case at all,'' said Rick Bress, an attorney
working with House Republicans on the anti-sampling case.

   After the 1990 census, using a statistical technique similar to
that proposed for the 2000 census, it was determined that about 4
million U.S. residents _ including 1 million in California _ were
not counted because they refused to cooperate, had moved, were
missed because of incompetence by census-takers and myriad other
reasons.

   An estimated two-thirds of the undercounted were minorities.

   About 4.4 percent of African Americans (1.3 million), 5 percent
of Latinos (1.1 million) and 2.3 percent of Asians (173,000) are
believed to have been missed.

   Had the missing been accounted for, California would have gained
an extra congressional seat _ most likely in Riverside County _ and
been the beneficiary of about $12 million in extra federal money
annually.

   The technique of correcting the census is going to be tried this
summer in Sacramento, which participated in a test census in April.
In the first phase of the test census, residents were asked to mail
back census forms, the standard procedure now used as the first way
to get compliance. Only about 50 percent of the forms were
returned.

   Now, census-takers are knocking on doors and trying to interview
and collect forms from people who live at addresses that have not
returned them.

   When this phase ends, sometime at the end of this month or early
July, the next phase _ the sampling phase _ will start.

   Essentially, sampling means census-takers will go to selected
areas and again knock on doors to get a sample of the population in
a particular kind of neighborhood.

   Those results would then be applied to other neighborhoods
thought to have similar characteristics.
',
			body: '


   By RAMON G. MCLEOD  
 c.1998 San Francisco Chronicle  
    A three-judge panel in Washington, D.C., will hear arguments
Thursday in a lawsuit that could determine whether statistical
methods can be used in the 2000 census to correct minority
undercounting.

',
			paragraphs: '
   California and the Bay Area have a lot at stake in the case
because of large and fast-growing minority populations that have
been undercounted by traditional census techniques. The census is
used to set voting district lines and as the baseline for
allocation of billions of federal dollars.

   Officially, the lawsuit was filed by the U.S. House of
Representatives to stop the Census Bureau from using statistical
means to correct the population count. But the main forces behind
the lawsuit are House Republicans _ led by Speaker Newt Gingrich _
who have loudly expressed concern about the accuracy of statistical
corrections and, less vocally, have worried that finding missed
minorities will create more Democratic congressional seats.

   On the other side, many cities, including San Francisco, San
Jose, Oakland and Los Angeles, have been deeply involved in pushing
for a statistical fix, often called sampling, to make up for the
missing people.

   Those cities _ plus 16 others _ have filed briefs on behalf of
the Census Bureau.

   ``We're involved because if cities are undercounted, it has a
direct relationship to federal and state budget allocations. There
is a lot of money involved here,'' said San Francisco City Attorney
Louise Renne. ``We know we've been undercounted, and we believe
that the sampling program is the best way to go and less likely to
result in undercounting.''

   Opponents, however, will argue that statistical corrections
aren't foolproof and can actually introduce more errors. Moreover,
they say, the Constitution calls for an ``actual enumeration'' of
the population, which they argue means a pure head count.

   ``The (pro-sampling) side argues that this improves accuracy,
but it turns out that when you get to the detail of how sampling is
done, it may not be the case at all,'' said Rick Bress, an attorney
working with House Republicans on the anti-sampling case.

   After the 1990 census, using a statistical technique similar to
that proposed for the 2000 census, it was determined that about 4
million U.S. residents _ including 1 million in California _ were
not counted because they refused to cooperate, had moved, were
missed because of incompetence by census-takers and myriad other
reasons.

   An estimated two-thirds of the undercounted were minorities.

   About 4.4 percent of African Americans (1.3 million), 5 percent
of Latinos (1.1 million) and 2.3 percent of Asians (173,000) are
believed to have been missed.

   Had the missing been accounted for, California would have gained
an extra congressional seat _ most likely in Riverside County _ and
been the beneficiary of about $12 million in extra federal money
annually.

   The technique of correcting the census is going to be tried this
summer in Sacramento, which participated in a test census in April.
In the first phase of the test census, residents were asked to mail
back census forms, the standard procedure now used as the first way
to get compliance. Only about 50 percent of the forms were
returned.

   Now, census-takers are knocking on doors and trying to interview
and collect forms from people who live at addresses that have not
returned them.

   When this phase ends, sometime at the end of this month or early
July, the next phase _ the sampling phase _ will start.

   Essentially, sampling means census-takers will go to selected
areas and again knock on doors to get a sample of the population in
a particular kind of neighborhood.

   Those results would then be applied to other neighborhoods
thought to have similar characteristics.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0387 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 21:59 ',
			header: '
A5543 &Cx1f; tta-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-MAGAZINE-FABRICATION-     06-11 0827
',
			slug: ' BC-MAGAZINE-FABRICATION-2NDTAKE-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   But, perhaps because The New Republic had been forced to
apologize for the plagiarism of another reporter, Ruth Shalit, a
few years ago, Lane felt more was required. So he, along with six
members of his staff, divided up Glass' articles and rechecked
every detail in them _ tracking down anonymous sources through data
bases, for example, and reading them back their quotes to determine
their accuracy. Lane said each article was then checked again by a
different person to assure that nothing had been missed.

   The New Republic has further established that Glass, who
previously headed up the fact-checking department at the magazine,
fabricated supporting material for his articles, such as reporter's
notes that were submitted to fact checkers, Web sites, voice mails
and faxes. Lane said: ``A very frequent tactic of his to elude fact
checkers recontacting his sources was to provide them with notes
saying, `This source is very nervous and specifically asks that you
not call him back,' even if there was a phone number.'''

   After confronting Glass about the hackers' article, for example,
Lane said Glass defended his work by presenting fake notes, a phony
Web site he had created for Jukt Micronics, the company featured in
the piece, and a voice mail message for the company (the number
turned out to be that of a cellular phone belonging to Glass'
brother in Palo Alto, Calif.)

   How could The New Republic allow Glass to repeatedly use
anonymous sources? Because Glass was considered a hardworking,
trustworthy member of the staff, editors who worked with him say,
fact-checkers gave him the benefit of the doubt. ``He was himself a
fact-checker and he knew where the holes were in the system,''
Kelly said. ``One obvious hole is that all fact-checking systems
take certain things on author.''

   While The New Republic had received letters objecting to a few
of Glass' articles during his tenure, Lane said they were no more
or less numerous or vehement than letters written to other
reporters about their provocative articles.

   Other magazines have been engaging in their own _ albeit less
intense _ investigations. Rolling Stone, for which Glass wrote four
articles, said so far it stands by the essence of Glass' articles _
although it has yet to confirm all of his anonymous quotes _ but
plans to respond to complaints about Glass' article on DARE, an
anti-drug program that he also wrote about for The New Republic.

   ``It's been a little bit of a shock to the system and that's not
bad for journalists to have,'' said Robert Love, Rolling Stone's
managing editor. ``We are just going to be more vigliant, more
paranoid about everything that we print.''

   Harper's rechecked the one article Glass had done for the
magazine _ in which Glass wrote about working as a telephone
psychic _ and found that while certain facts could be confirmed,
there was no way to verify statements from anonymous callers.

   ``We can't retract the story without being able to confirm that
it was false,'' said John R. MacArthur Jr., Harper's publisher.
Macarthur added that Glass had not returned the magazine's calls
and that the magazine had canceled his contract for two more
articles.

   George magazine, for which Glass wrote three main features and
several shorter articles, said it plans to apologize in its coming
issue for an article about Vernon Jordan in which Glass fabricated
quotes from unnamed sources. John F. Kennedy, the president and
editor in chief, also sent a personal letter apologizing to Jordan.

   After learning of The New Republic's situation, The New York
Times Magazine decided not to run an article that Glass had
submitted in draft form, the writer's first for the magazine.

   Lane said that he and Martin Peretz, chairman of The New
Republic, had received letters of apology from Glass this week.
``Thus ends an unpleasant chapter,'' Peretz said.

   Given that Glass seems to have put has as much effort into
fabricating his facts as he would have into reporting them, there
has been considerable speculation about what would drive such a
young journalist with so much potential to risk his career.

   Glass, who grew up in Highland Park, Ill., attended the
University of Pennsylvania. He went on to work for The Heritage
Foundation before being hired as an editorial assistant at The New
Repubic.

   Some have suggested that Glass was overextended, given the
number of contracts he was trying to fulfill simultaneously for
various publications. He was also in his first year of pursuing a
law degree at night at Georgetown University.

   But most people involved say they simply remain mystified by
Glass' elaborate charade, and disheartened. ``I'm very sad at what
he's done _ it sounds to me like a very deep pathology,'' said Love
of Rolling Stone. ``To work with him was a pleasure. He was a great
kid. He is a great kid.''
',
			body: '

  
 UNDATED: investment banks. 

',
			paragraphs: '
   But, perhaps because The New Republic had been forced to
apologize for the plagiarism of another reporter, Ruth Shalit, a
few years ago, Lane felt more was required. So he, along with six
members of his staff, divided up Glass' articles and rechecked
every detail in them _ tracking down anonymous sources through data
bases, for example, and reading them back their quotes to determine
their accuracy. Lane said each article was then checked again by a
different person to assure that nothing had been missed.

   The New Republic has further established that Glass, who
previously headed up the fact-checking department at the magazine,
fabricated supporting material for his articles, such as reporter's
notes that were submitted to fact checkers, Web sites, voice mails
and faxes. Lane said: ``A very frequent tactic of his to elude fact
checkers recontacting his sources was to provide them with notes
saying, `This source is very nervous and specifically asks that you
not call him back,' even if there was a phone number.'''

   After confronting Glass about the hackers' article, for example,
Lane said Glass defended his work by presenting fake notes, a phony
Web site he had created for Jukt Micronics, the company featured in
the piece, and a voice mail message for the company (the number
turned out to be that of a cellular phone belonging to Glass'
brother in Palo Alto, Calif.)

   How could The New Republic allow Glass to repeatedly use
anonymous sources? Because Glass was considered a hardworking,
trustworthy member of the staff, editors who worked with him say,
fact-checkers gave him the benefit of the doubt. ``He was himself a
fact-checker and he knew where the holes were in the system,''
Kelly said. ``One obvious hole is that all fact-checking systems
take certain things on author.''

   While The New Republic had received letters objecting to a few
of Glass' articles during his tenure, Lane said they were no more
or less numerous or vehement than letters written to other
reporters about their provocative articles.

   Other magazines have been engaging in their own _ albeit less
intense _ investigations. Rolling Stone, for which Glass wrote four
articles, said so far it stands by the essence of Glass' articles _
although it has yet to confirm all of his anonymous quotes _ but
plans to respond to complaints about Glass' article on DARE, an
anti-drug program that he also wrote about for The New Republic.

   ``It's been a little bit of a shock to the system and that's not
bad for journalists to have,'' said Robert Love, Rolling Stone's
managing editor. ``We are just going to be more vigliant, more
paranoid about everything that we print.''

   Harper's rechecked the one article Glass had done for the
magazine _ in which Glass wrote about working as a telephone
psychic _ and found that while certain facts could be confirmed,
there was no way to verify statements from anonymous callers.

   ``We can't retract the story without being able to confirm that
it was false,'' said John R. MacArthur Jr., Harper's publisher.
Macarthur added that Glass had not returned the magazine's calls
and that the magazine had canceled his contract for two more
articles.

   George magazine, for which Glass wrote three main features and
several shorter articles, said it plans to apologize in its coming
issue for an article about Vernon Jordan in which Glass fabricated
quotes from unnamed sources. John F. Kennedy, the president and
editor in chief, also sent a personal letter apologizing to Jordan.

   After learning of The New Republic's situation, The New York
Times Magazine decided not to run an article that Glass had
submitted in draft form, the writer's first for the magazine.

   Lane said that he and Martin Peretz, chairman of The New
Republic, had received letters of apology from Glass this week.
``Thus ends an unpleasant chapter,'' Peretz said.

   Given that Glass seems to have put has as much effort into
fabricating his facts as he would have into reporting them, there
has been considerable speculation about what would drive such a
young journalist with so much potential to risk his career.

   Glass, who grew up in Highland Park, Ill., attended the
University of Pennsylvania. He went on to work for The Heritage
Foundation before being hired as an editorial assistant at The New
Repubic.

   Some have suggested that Glass was overextended, given the
number of contracts he was trying to fulfill simultaneously for
various publications. He was also in his first year of pursuing a
law degree at night at Georgetown University.

   But most people involved say they simply remain mystified by
Glass' elaborate charade, and disheartened. ``I'm very sad at what
he's done _ it sounds to me like a very deep pathology,'' said Love
of Rolling Stone. ``To work with him was a pleasure. He was a great
kid. He is a great kid.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0388 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:01 ',
			header: '
A5545 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-911-DELAY-215&AMP;ADD-     06-11 0780
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-911-DELAY-215&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
POLICE EFFORT TO SPEED 911 LAGGING BADLY 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ The Police Department's attempt to speed its
officers' response to emergency calls by upgrading the city's new
911 system is nearly three years behind schedule, and, with no
completion date in sight, the city is on the verge of canceling the
$17 million project, officials said.

   Using funds from a 35-cent monthly surcharge on every phone bill
in the city, New York in 1995 replaced its outdated 911 system with
a $156 million system that lets dispatchers automatically identify
the address of the caller. The last phase of the project was
supposed to transmit that information to portable computers in
patrol cars, which officials said would free up radio airwaves and
improve police response time.

   But the contractor, MCI Systemhouse, has failed 18 times to
write a workable program for the computer-aided dispatch system,
police officials said, and now some city officials estimate that it
may not have it in place for five years, even though it was
expected to be operating by 1995.

   The problems with the contract come as police have taken longer,
on average, to respond to calls about crimes in progress, according
to the Mayor's Management Report. In 1995, the average response
time was 7.7 minutes, but by the 1998 fiscal year, it had jumped to
10.3 minutes.

   Steven Fishner, the city's criminal justice coordinator, said
the problems with the project have not disrupted the basic 911
system or prevented police from receiving or responding to
emergency calls. And even if the system had been fully operational,
that alone would not account for all of the increased response
time, which depends on a number of human, strategic and
technological factors.

   The city has already paid MCI Systemhouse, a unit of MCI, more
than $4 million for software development. Company officials have
been unable to provide the police with an acceptable completion
date for the project, and now the city is seeking to recover that
money.

   ``This is very troubling,'' Fishner said. ``The Police
Department went out and competitively awarded a contract to a major
company which in 1994 had a proven track record. But obviously it
is not completed and we have to review our options and see what
remedies are available for the city.''

   The latest problems with the contract came seven months after
police were forced to scuttle another $2.5 million software
development effort. Last November, Police Commissioner Howard Safir
canceled a project to automate the department's system of tracking
and cataloguing the hundreds of thousands of pieces of evidence and
property seized by officers each year. That action was taken after
the vendor repeatedly failed to deliver its product and the program
fell victim to infighting between different factions in the
department's bureaucracy.

   In a letter to the Police Department, MCI Systemhouse attributed
some of the delays to the department's repeated changes to the
contract, said a police official who spoke on the condition of
anonymity.

   A spokesman for MCI Systemhouse, David Sutton, said the company
had nearly completed its work on the 911 project and had recently
submitted a written proposal to the Police Department on fixing the
troubled software but was not certain whether it would be accepted.

   But some city officials fear that the dispatching program has
been so badly mishandled that it may take five years to complete
and that the department would be better off taking bids for a new
contract and starting from scratch.

   City Councilman Sheldon Leffler, the Public Safety Committee
chairman, said Council members have been concerned about the
project for years. ``It's unfortunate that so many years have gone
by before the Police Department canceled the project,'' Leffler
said. ``You could see that it was floundering, and if they had
acted sooner, it could have saved the taxpayers money and started
working on a new solution.''

   New York was one of the last major cities in the country to
install an enhanced 911 system, which automatically shows
dispatchers the telephone number and address from which emergency
calls originate. Most other major cities also have computer
dispatching systems, which police commanders use to deploy their
resources more efficiently and to provide responding officers with
information about previous calls from the same address.

   Safir said through a spokeswoman, Marilyn Mode, that he would
not discuss the contract.
',
			body: '


   (bl)  
 By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ The Police Department's attempt to speed its
officers' response to emergency calls by upgrading the city's new
911 system is nearly three years behind schedule, and, with no
completion date in sight, the city is on the verge of canceling the
$17 million project, officials said.

   Using funds from a 35-cent monthly surcharge on every phone bill
in the city, New York in 1995 replaced its outdated 911 system with
a $156 million system that lets dispatchers automatically identify
the address of the caller. The last phase of the project was
supposed to transmit that information to portable computers in
patrol cars, which officials said would free up radio airwaves and
improve police response time.

   But the contractor, MCI Systemhouse, has failed 18 times to
write a workable program for the computer-aided dispatch system,
police officials said, and now some city officials estimate that it
may not have it in place for five years, even though it was
expected to be operating by 1995.

   The problems with the contract come as police have taken longer,
on average, to respond to calls about crimes in progress, according
to the Mayor's Management Report. In 1995, the average response
time was 7.7 minutes, but by the 1998 fiscal year, it had jumped to
10.3 minutes.

   Steven Fishner, the city's criminal justice coordinator, said
the problems with the project have not disrupted the basic 911
system or prevented police from receiving or responding to
emergency calls. And even if the system had been fully operational,
that alone would not account for all of the increased response
time, which depends on a number of human, strategic and
technological factors.

   The city has already paid MCI Systemhouse, a unit of MCI, more
than $4 million for software development. Company officials have
been unable to provide the police with an acceptable completion
date for the project, and now the city is seeking to recover that
money.

   ``This is very troubling,'' Fishner said. ``The Police
Department went out and competitively awarded a contract to a major
company which in 1994 had a proven track record. But obviously it
is not completed and we have to review our options and see what
remedies are available for the city.''

   The latest problems with the contract came seven months after
police were forced to scuttle another $2.5 million software
development effort. Last November, Police Commissioner Howard Safir
canceled a project to automate the department's system of tracking
and cataloguing the hundreds of thousands of pieces of evidence and
property seized by officers each year. That action was taken after
the vendor repeatedly failed to deliver its product and the program
fell victim to infighting between different factions in the
department's bureaucracy.

   In a letter to the Police Department, MCI Systemhouse attributed
some of the delays to the department's repeated changes to the
contract, said a police official who spoke on the condition of
anonymity.

   A spokesman for MCI Systemhouse, David Sutton, said the company
had nearly completed its work on the 911 project and had recently
submitted a written proposal to the Police Department on fixing the
troubled software but was not certain whether it would be accepted.

   But some city officials fear that the dispatching program has
been so badly mishandled that it may take five years to complete
and that the department would be better off taking bids for a new
contract and starting from scratch.

   City Councilman Sheldon Leffler, the Public Safety Committee
chairman, said Council members have been concerned about the
project for years. ``It's unfortunate that so many years have gone
by before the Police Department canceled the project,'' Leffler
said. ``You could see that it was floundering, and if they had
acted sooner, it could have saved the taxpayers money and started
working on a new solution.''

   New York was one of the last major cities in the country to
install an enhanced 911 system, which automatically shows
dispatchers the telephone number and address from which emergency
calls originate. Most other major cities also have computer
dispatching systems, which police commanders use to deploy their
resources more efficiently and to provide responding officers with
information about previous calls from the same address.

   Safir said through a spokeswoman, Marilyn Mode, that he would
not discuss the contract.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0389 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:02 ',
			header: '
A5546 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-BOIES-PROFILE-ART-     06-11 0954
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-BOIES-PROFILE-ART-NYT ',
			headline: '
U.S. VS. MICROSOFT: READYING THE SLINGSHOT FOR A MODERN GOLIATH 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ David Boies is the former Cravath, Swaine &AMP; Moore
superstar trial lawyer in the cheap suits and stretch limousines
who has defended some of the biggest legal game of the last 30
years: IBM in its 13-year fight with the government, CBS in the
libel suit brought by Gen. William Westmoreland, and the nation's
failed savings-and-loans against Michael Milken.

   Now he is the chief trial lawyer in the snazziest antitrust
lawsuit of the 1990s: United States vs. Microsoft.

   Tough case? ``Not really,'' he said. ``To be honest.''

   Boies has been called an eccentric genius, a prima donna, wry
and amusing _ but never modest. He said in an interview on
Wednesday that the Microsoft case will be over by October (the
trial is set to start in Washington Sept. 8), and that he is
pleased that the judge on Tuesday limited each side to six to 12
witnesses.

   He also said the government's best evidence against Microsoft is
Microsoft's own documents, used in the government's complaint. ``We
didn't sort of hold back the best,'' Boies said.

   Microsoft responded to Boies' manueverings with its own.
``That's useful information for us,'' said William H. Neukom,
Microsoft's senior vice president for law and corporate affairs, on
the documents. Mark Murray, a Microsoft spokesman, said Thursday
that the Justice Department was deliberately withholding the
documents it was using against Microsoft to ``hamstring'' the
defense. And so forth.

   The heart of the case is this: The government says Microsoft
used its monopoly in its Windows software to illegally crush
competitors in another market _ Internet browsers _ to favor
Microsoft's own browser, called Internet Explorer. Microsoft
counters that Internet Explorer is an ``integrated product'' with
Windows.

   Things were sunnier two days ago, when Boies talked in the study
of his red-brick Georgian overlooking 10 acres in Armonk, in
northern Westchester County. There was a pool, a tennis court, a
few dogs, the noises of children. ( Boies has six from three
wives.)

   It might have been a pleasant scene from the life of a country
squire, were the country squire not distracted by five phone lines
and clients like the actor Gary Shandling, who is suing his manager
_ Boies' most time-consuming case right now.

   Boies, 57, had the body-language of a harried man who was just
passing through his own home, enroute from Washington and on the
way to the office in Armonk. But he sat still for an hour, in black
sneakers and a $160 suit from Macy's, and dismissed the idea that
as a onetime IBM lawyer against the government he can now bring
tricks to the government side.

   ``You've got to be sure you don't fight the last war,'' Boies
said. Naturally he said he was on the right side both times, and
that ``IBM did not engage in the kind of practices'' that Microsoft
did.

   His main lesson from IBM?

   ``Speed,'' he said. It took the IBM case five years to get to
trial; eight years after that the Justice Department dropped the
case because it was technologically irrelevant. Last month, it was
Boies who pushed for the early Microsoft trial date.

   Boies grew most engaged when he talked about the Sherman Act _
the 1890 law passed to control the robber barons and now being used
against Microsoft.

   ``You're applying antitrust principles to software,'' Boies
said. ``It's interesting, and it's important. But it's not that
difficult.'' He sees a ``re-emergence'' of antitrust enforcement in
the 1990s, after a trough during the Reagan administration, and
says that antitrust laws ``are what make free markets possible.''

   Probably it is impolite to point out that Boies has also grown
rich from the antitrust laws _ he was making around $2 million a
year when he left Cravath in 1997 _ especially since he is charging
the Justice Department a bargain-rate $250 an hour for his
services.

   Boies' normal fee is $600 an hour. He expects his total bill to
the Justice Department to be $100,000, although if it were a
corporate client, he said, ``I would have added at least a zero.''

   Boies was hired by Joel I. Klein, the assistant attorney general
in charge of the department's antitrust division. Klein said
Thursday that his division had not handled major antitrust cases
for a number of years, and he needed a lawyer with long-term
experience. ``There's no substitute for that many years of
orchestrating litigation,'' he said. ``It's a high art form.''

   Boies was asked what inspired his career choice. ``Perry
Mason,'' he said. ``Seriously.''

   Boies grew up in Orange County, Calif. His father was a high
school history teacher; Boies thought for a time about getting a
Phd. in American history. Instead he married his girlfriend right
after high school, worked on a construction crew and as a
bookkeeper before graduating from Northwestern University and then
Yale Law School.

   He joined Cravath in 1966, made partner in 1972, and left last
year to represent clients like George Steinbrenner, whose interests
collided with some of the giant companies the firm represents. (Law
firms are not permitted to represent competing clients.)

   He now has his own firm, Boies &AMP; Schiller, with 23 lawyers and
clients like CBS and the government of France. He has been married
to his third wife, Mary, since 1982.

   He has a famous fly-paper memory, and loves to gamble in Las
Vegas.
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: N.Y., Calif.)  (ART ADV: Photo will be sent to NYT photo clients. Non-subscribers
can make individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(af) 
 By ELISABETH BUMILLER   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ David Boies is the former Cravath, Swaine &AMP; Moore
superstar trial lawyer in the cheap suits and stretch limousines
who has defended some of the biggest legal game of the last 30
years: IBM in its 13-year fight with the government, CBS in the
libel suit brought by Gen. William Westmoreland, and the nation's
failed savings-and-loans against Michael Milken.

   Now he is the chief trial lawyer in the snazziest antitrust
lawsuit of the 1990s: United States vs. Microsoft.

   Tough case? ``Not really,'' he said. ``To be honest.''

   Boies has been called an eccentric genius, a prima donna, wry
and amusing _ but never modest. He said in an interview on
Wednesday that the Microsoft case will be over by October (the
trial is set to start in Washington Sept. 8), and that he is
pleased that the judge on Tuesday limited each side to six to 12
witnesses.

   He also said the government's best evidence against Microsoft is
Microsoft's own documents, used in the government's complaint. ``We
didn't sort of hold back the best,'' Boies said.

   Microsoft responded to Boies' manueverings with its own.
``That's useful information for us,'' said William H. Neukom,
Microsoft's senior vice president for law and corporate affairs, on
the documents. Mark Murray, a Microsoft spokesman, said Thursday
that the Justice Department was deliberately withholding the
documents it was using against Microsoft to ``hamstring'' the
defense. And so forth.

   The heart of the case is this: The government says Microsoft
used its monopoly in its Windows software to illegally crush
competitors in another market _ Internet browsers _ to favor
Microsoft's own browser, called Internet Explorer. Microsoft
counters that Internet Explorer is an ``integrated product'' with
Windows.

   Things were sunnier two days ago, when Boies talked in the study
of his red-brick Georgian overlooking 10 acres in Armonk, in
northern Westchester County. There was a pool, a tennis court, a
few dogs, the noises of children. ( Boies has six from three
wives.)

   It might have been a pleasant scene from the life of a country
squire, were the country squire not distracted by five phone lines
and clients like the actor Gary Shandling, who is suing his manager
_ Boies' most time-consuming case right now.

   Boies, 57, had the body-language of a harried man who was just
passing through his own home, enroute from Washington and on the
way to the office in Armonk. But he sat still for an hour, in black
sneakers and a $160 suit from Macy's, and dismissed the idea that
as a onetime IBM lawyer against the government he can now bring
tricks to the government side.

   ``You've got to be sure you don't fight the last war,'' Boies
said. Naturally he said he was on the right side both times, and
that ``IBM did not engage in the kind of practices'' that Microsoft
did.

   His main lesson from IBM?

   ``Speed,'' he said. It took the IBM case five years to get to
trial; eight years after that the Justice Department dropped the
case because it was technologically irrelevant. Last month, it was
Boies who pushed for the early Microsoft trial date.

   Boies grew most engaged when he talked about the Sherman Act _
the 1890 law passed to control the robber barons and now being used
against Microsoft.

   ``You're applying antitrust principles to software,'' Boies
said. ``It's interesting, and it's important. But it's not that
difficult.'' He sees a ``re-emergence'' of antitrust enforcement in
the 1990s, after a trough during the Reagan administration, and
says that antitrust laws ``are what make free markets possible.''

   Probably it is impolite to point out that Boies has also grown
rich from the antitrust laws _ he was making around $2 million a
year when he left Cravath in 1997 _ especially since he is charging
the Justice Department a bargain-rate $250 an hour for his
services.

   Boies' normal fee is $600 an hour. He expects his total bill to
the Justice Department to be $100,000, although if it were a
corporate client, he said, ``I would have added at least a zero.''

   Boies was hired by Joel I. Klein, the assistant attorney general
in charge of the department's antitrust division. Klein said
Thursday that his division had not handled major antitrust cases
for a number of years, and he needed a lawyer with long-term
experience. ``There's no substitute for that many years of
orchestrating litigation,'' he said. ``It's a high art form.''

   Boies was asked what inspired his career choice. ``Perry
Mason,'' he said. ``Seriously.''

   Boies grew up in Orange County, Calif. His father was a high
school history teacher; Boies thought for a time about getting a
Phd. in American history. Instead he married his girlfriend right
after high school, worked on a construction crew and as a
bookkeeper before graduating from Northwestern University and then
Yale Law School.

   He joined Cravath in 1966, made partner in 1972, and left last
year to represent clients like George Steinbrenner, whose interests
collided with some of the giant companies the firm represents. (Law
firms are not permitted to represent competing clients.)

   He now has his own firm, Boies &AMP; Schiller, with 23 lawyers and
clients like CBS and the government of France. He has been married
to his third wife, Mary, since 1982.

   He has a famous fly-paper memory, and loves to gamble in Las
Vegas.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0390 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:02 ',
			header: '
A5547 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ELIMINATE-RECAP-NYT &LR;      06-11 0079
',
			slug: ' BC-ELIMINATE-RECAP-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   ALL BUDGETED STORIES HAVE MOVED except: BBA-YANKS-EXPOS,
BBN-METS-MARLINS and HKN-REDWINGS-CAPITALS.

   Recapping:

   The following were eliminated from tonight's NYTNS budgets:

   CHILD-LABOR (Geneva)

   BAPTISTS (Salt Lake City)

   CREDIT (New York)

   NY-BARTENDERS-HATS (New York)

   SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE (Paris)

   FBN-NFL-EUROPE (Frankfurt, Germany)

   N.Y. Times News Service.
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   ALL BUDGETED STORIES HAVE MOVED except: BBA-YANKS-EXPOS,
BBN-METS-MARLINS and HKN-REDWINGS-CAPITALS.

   Recapping:

   The following were eliminated from tonight's NYTNS budgets:

   CHILD-LABOR (Geneva)

   BAPTISTS (Salt Lake City)

   CREDIT (New York)

   NY-BARTENDERS-HATS (New York)

   SOC-WORLDCUP-WEGERLE (Paris)

   FBN-NFL-EUROPE (Frankfurt, Germany)

   N.Y. Times News Service.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0391 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:06 ',
			header: '
A5551 &Cx1f; taf-z
r a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-QUOTE-OF-THE-DAY-NYT     06-11 0060
',
			slug: ' BC-QUOTE-OF-THE-DAY-NYT ',
			headline: '
QUOTATION OF THE DAY
',
			trailer: '
   ``America thought Korea was a problem, but Japan is like a bomb
a hundred times more powerful than Korea.''

   _RAJIV MALIK, an economist, on the Asian financial crisis.
',
			body: '


 (Eds.: This quotation refers to BC-ASIA-GLOOM-NYT, which moved in
``f'' news file.) 
c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   ``America thought Korea was a problem, but Japan is like a bomb
a hundred times more powerful than Korea.''

   _RAJIV MALIK, an economist, on the Asian financial crisis.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0392 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:07 ',
			header: '
A5553 &Cx1f; tad-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-JEWEL-GALAXY-COX     06-11 0327
',
			slug: ' BC-JEWEL-GALAXY-COX ',
			headline: '
&HT;   
',
			trailer: '
   AUSTIN, Texas _ University of Texas astronomer Fritz Benedict
has been studying NGC 4314, a spiral galaxy 40 million light years
from Earth, since 1980.

   Scientists study galaxies to learn about the life cycle of stars
because humanity depends on a star, the Sun. But, until this week,
Benedict had only seen NGC 4314 in the telescopes of UT's McDonald
Observatory: an interesting but fuzzy blob of faint yellow and
blue.

   On Thursday, NASA released the powerful Hubble space telescope's
first view of what NGC 4314 really is: a bright yellow jewel in a
setting of red and blue gems.The gems are a nursery where stars are
being born around the galaxy's yellow core.

   ``Lovely,'' said Benedict by e-mail from San Diego, Calif.,
where he was attending the summer meeting of the American
Astronomical Society, which will hold its winter meeting in Austin
in January. ``Not the most exciting picture, but certainly the best
looking.''

   The photo will be as useful as it is pretty, because it shows
the formation of stars with almost as much clarity as can be seen
in our own Milky Way galaxy.

   Unlike the Milky Way, increasingly visible with the unaided eye
at this time of year as a mass of luminous star clouds across the
eastern sky, NGC 4314 is too far away to see without a telescope.

   Benedict and other astronomers will use the Hubble picture and
additional Hubble data to modify computer models of star formation,
mathematical respresentations that aid their understanding. They
make the models, which predict a star's birth to death process,
because they won't live long enough to see the stars of any galaxy
change.

   ``The stars and gas do move,'' Benedict said. ``But it would
take thousands of years to see the motion.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
',
			body: '


 &HT;    Astronomer describes galaxy as a jewel
 &HT;    By Dick Stanley
 &HT;    c. 1998 Cox News Service

',
			paragraphs: '
   AUSTIN, Texas _ University of Texas astronomer Fritz Benedict
has been studying NGC 4314, a spiral galaxy 40 million light years
from Earth, since 1980.

   Scientists study galaxies to learn about the life cycle of stars
because humanity depends on a star, the Sun. But, until this week,
Benedict had only seen NGC 4314 in the telescopes of UT's McDonald
Observatory: an interesting but fuzzy blob of faint yellow and
blue.

   On Thursday, NASA released the powerful Hubble space telescope's
first view of what NGC 4314 really is: a bright yellow jewel in a
setting of red and blue gems.The gems are a nursery where stars are
being born around the galaxy's yellow core.

   ``Lovely,'' said Benedict by e-mail from San Diego, Calif.,
where he was attending the summer meeting of the American
Astronomical Society, which will hold its winter meeting in Austin
in January. ``Not the most exciting picture, but certainly the best
looking.''

   The photo will be as useful as it is pretty, because it shows
the formation of stars with almost as much clarity as can be seen
in our own Milky Way galaxy.

   Unlike the Milky Way, increasingly visible with the unaided eye
at this time of year as a mass of luminous star clouds across the
eastern sky, NGC 4314 is too far away to see without a telescope.

   Benedict and other astronomers will use the Hubble picture and
additional Hubble data to modify computer models of star formation,
mathematical respresentations that aid their understanding. They
make the models, which predict a star's birth to death process,
because they won't live long enough to see the stars of any galaxy
change.

   ``The stars and gas do move,'' Benedict said. ``But it would
take thousands of years to see the motion.''

   Story Filed By Cox Newspapers

   For Use By Clients of the New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0393 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:07 ',
			header: '
A5554 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-LILCO-350&AMP;ADD-NYT &LR;      06-11 0711
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-LILCO-350&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
LAWYER TO STUDY LILCO CHIEF'S PAY PACKAGE 
',
			trailer: '
   GARDEN CITY, N.Y. _ Despite Gov. George Pataki's demand for his
ouster, William Catacosinos is still gripping the chairman's reins
at the new Marketspan Corp. Thursday he presided over the company's
first meeting of its board of directors.

   But the directors, putting aside all other business at their
closed meeting, devoted the entire three-hour session to the issue
that prompted the governor's attack: the $42 million payment that
Catacosinos collected at the demise on May 28 of Marketspan's
predecessor, Long Island Lighting Co., where he was chairman.

   Before considering what, if any, action to take, the new
Marketspan board decided to hire an independent lawyer to conduct a
fact-finding study and report back by the next directors' meeting,
on June 26. The lawyer has not been chosen. Marketspan officials
said that the review would focus on what compensation was awarded
and whether it was properly authorized and disclosed.

   ``The board has a concern about the governor's position and
wants to get down to what the facts are,'' said Vincent Tese, one
of the directors who did not come from LILCO or Brooklyn Union Gas,
which merged to form Marketspan. A company spokesman, Joseph
McDonnell, said, ``The outside attorney will review the LILCO
board's actions to see whether they were appropriate, particularly
in regard to disclosures.''

   The governor contends that Catacosinos' $42 million, plus $25
million paid to 25 other LILCO executives, violated the contracts
under which the state took over most of LILCO's electricity service
and the rest of LILCO merged with the Brooklyn Union Gas holding
company. Severance pay was barred by a no-layoff provision
guaranteeing all 8,000 LILCO and Brooklyn Union employees new jobs
at Marketspan, Pataki said.

   He had pushed for the state takeover to enable a 20 percent cut
in electricity bills, which under LILCO were the highest in the
continental United States.

   ``The governor continues to believe Mr. Catacosinos should
resign and give the money back,'' said Pataki's spokesman, Michael
McKeon. ``This was an extraordinary act of greed, and it must not
stand.''

   The compensation dispute is said to have provoked an internal
power struggle at Marketspan, with Catacosinos leading the LILCO
faction and Robert Catell, Marketspan's new president and the
former Brooklyn Union chairman, leading the other side.

   Public officials have said that both factions were trying to
gain the upper hand, with Catacosinos and Catell trying to oust
each other. But neither side lined up a solid majority on the board
_ composed of six directors from LILCO, six from Brooklyn Union and
two independent directors (the last independent director is yet to
be named). So there appears to be a truce and mutual strategic
retreat, at least for now.

   The company's spokesman described the scene at Thursday's
meeting: Catacosinos sat with Catell at his side as the directors
gathered around the large wood conference table in the old LILCO
headquarters in Hicksville, N.Y.

   ``Dr. Catacosinos and Mr. Catell will be working together to
continue the process of bringing this new company forward,''
McDonnell said afterward. ``The meeting was an open and frank
discussion with participation from all of the members. It was not
confrontational. It was collegial, cordial and professional. In no
way was it hostile at all. The board sought to identify the key
issues that had to be addressed and seeks to resolve this matter
expeditiously.''

   Pataki's appointee as chairman of the state agency that took
over the electricity system, Richard Kessel, said, ``While we're
encouraged that the Marketspan board is investigating this matter,
the only acceptable resolution is for Dr. Catacosinos to leave and
pay back the money. The final chapter of this story is yet to be
written.''

   Kessel's agency, the Long Island Power Authority, has long-term
contracts to buy electricity from the old LILCO generators now
owned by Marketspan and to hire the new company to operate the
electricity system. &QL;
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 By BRUCE LAMBERT    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   GARDEN CITY, N.Y. _ Despite Gov. George Pataki's demand for his
ouster, William Catacosinos is still gripping the chairman's reins
at the new Marketspan Corp. Thursday he presided over the company's
first meeting of its board of directors.

   But the directors, putting aside all other business at their
closed meeting, devoted the entire three-hour session to the issue
that prompted the governor's attack: the $42 million payment that
Catacosinos collected at the demise on May 28 of Marketspan's
predecessor, Long Island Lighting Co., where he was chairman.

   Before considering what, if any, action to take, the new
Marketspan board decided to hire an independent lawyer to conduct a
fact-finding study and report back by the next directors' meeting,
on June 26. The lawyer has not been chosen. Marketspan officials
said that the review would focus on what compensation was awarded
and whether it was properly authorized and disclosed.

   ``The board has a concern about the governor's position and
wants to get down to what the facts are,'' said Vincent Tese, one
of the directors who did not come from LILCO or Brooklyn Union Gas,
which merged to form Marketspan. A company spokesman, Joseph
McDonnell, said, ``The outside attorney will review the LILCO
board's actions to see whether they were appropriate, particularly
in regard to disclosures.''

   The governor contends that Catacosinos' $42 million, plus $25
million paid to 25 other LILCO executives, violated the contracts
under which the state took over most of LILCO's electricity service
and the rest of LILCO merged with the Brooklyn Union Gas holding
company. Severance pay was barred by a no-layoff provision
guaranteeing all 8,000 LILCO and Brooklyn Union employees new jobs
at Marketspan, Pataki said.

   He had pushed for the state takeover to enable a 20 percent cut
in electricity bills, which under LILCO were the highest in the
continental United States.

   ``The governor continues to believe Mr. Catacosinos should
resign and give the money back,'' said Pataki's spokesman, Michael
McKeon. ``This was an extraordinary act of greed, and it must not
stand.''

   The compensation dispute is said to have provoked an internal
power struggle at Marketspan, with Catacosinos leading the LILCO
faction and Robert Catell, Marketspan's new president and the
former Brooklyn Union chairman, leading the other side.

   Public officials have said that both factions were trying to
gain the upper hand, with Catacosinos and Catell trying to oust
each other. But neither side lined up a solid majority on the board
_ composed of six directors from LILCO, six from Brooklyn Union and
two independent directors (the last independent director is yet to
be named). So there appears to be a truce and mutual strategic
retreat, at least for now.

   The company's spokesman described the scene at Thursday's
meeting: Catacosinos sat with Catell at his side as the directors
gathered around the large wood conference table in the old LILCO
headquarters in Hicksville, N.Y.

   ``Dr. Catacosinos and Mr. Catell will be working together to
continue the process of bringing this new company forward,''
McDonnell said afterward. ``The meeting was an open and frank
discussion with participation from all of the members. It was not
confrontational. It was collegial, cordial and professional. In no
way was it hostile at all. The board sought to identify the key
issues that had to be addressed and seeks to resolve this matter
expeditiously.''

   Pataki's appointee as chairman of the state agency that took
over the electricity system, Richard Kessel, said, ``While we're
encouraged that the Marketspan board is investigating this matter,
the only acceptable resolution is for Dr. Catacosinos to leave and
pay back the money. The final chapter of this story is yet to be
written.''

   Kessel's agency, the Long Island Power Authority, has long-term
contracts to buy electricity from the old LILCO generators now
owned by Marketspan and to hire the new company to operate the
electricity system. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0394 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:08 ',
			header: '
A5557 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-RAC-MODESTI-COLUMN-LA     06-11 0910
',
			slug: ' BC-RAC-MODESTI-COLUMN-LADN ',
			headline: '
LET THE HORSES SELL THE SPORT
',
			trailer: '
   INGLEWOOD _ When it comes to producing a commercial for
thoroughbred racing, a pair of horses did a better job than the men
who run the sport.

   Certainly, the new ``Go Baby Go'' campaign has increased
racing's exposure. If you haven't seen the commercials starring
``Tank Girl'' Lori Petty, you aren't watching enough TV.

   But the Belmont Stakes duel between Triple Crown hopeful Real
Quiet and winner Victory Gallop showed racing at its best _ better
than anything man-made could.

   Historic implications, a big field of horses, the tightest
Belmont Stakes finish in 36 years, strategic issues anybody could
grasp, a hint of post-race controversy over the late bumping,
classy reactions from the winners and losers _ racing needed a
skeptical nation to see all that a lot more than it needed a Triple
Crown winner.

   This week I've found more nonracing fans wanting to talk about
horses, and receptive to invitations to the track, than ever
before.

   To the National Thoroughbred Racing Association: How about
taking a tape of the last 30 seconds of the Belmont and making
!ital!that your commercial?

   $1 million pick-six: Putting on a great race is one way to sell
the sport. Giving away money is another.

   Hollywood Park proposes to do the latter on Sunday.

   The track is guaranteeing the pick-six pool will be at least $1
million (before the 20 percent takeout) that afternoon. In other
words, if fans bet less than that on the pick-six, which covers
races 5 through 10, Hollywood Park management will make up the
difference.

   It's hard to predict how big the pool could get, but with so
much advance publicity, and with fans in at least 36 other states
contributing, it could reach several million dollars. As always, 70
percent of the pool will be split among fans picking all six
winners, and 30 percent will go those with the next highest number.

   The record pool for a Hollywood Park pick-six _ $2,388,186 after
two carryover days in 1985 _ could fall. The national record _
$6,657,311 after five carryover days at Santa Anita in 1991 _
appears safe.

   Racing secretary Martin Panza saved some of his most popular
race conditions for Sunday and came up with pick-six races
averaging more than 10 horses. Entries were taken Thursday, and
past-performance charts will appear in Saturday's Daily Racing
Form, giving fans an extra day to handicap.

   The big race: The pick-six races Sunday include the $400,000
Shoemaker Breeders' Cup Mile. The Grade II event is the richest
mile turf-race leading up to the $1 million Breeders' Cup Mile at
Churchill Downs on Nov. 8.

   The seven-horse field features five graded stakes winners.
Hawksley Hill, ridden by Gary Stevens, comes off a swift win in the
San Francisco Mile, one of three Grade II victories; his Neil
Drysdale stablemate, Labeeb, with Kent Desormeaux, is a multiple
stakes winner who started his 1998 season by taking the Arcadia
Handicap; likely pacesetter Expelled, with Alex Solis, won the
Grade I Eddie Read at 23-1 last summer but hasn't raced since
getting hurt in the Oak Tree Turf Championship in October; and
Fantastic Fellow, with Corey Nakatani, won the Grade III Inglewood
on this course.

   Confusion: Hollywood Park has struggled to fill races recently,
at least partly because trainers who have been training horses with
clenbuterol are afraid of failing post-race tests.

   Clenbuterol, which aids horses' breathing, was made legal by the
Food and Drug Administration last month, but is still prohibited
for horses in competition. Meanwhile, the urine tests for
clenbuterol recently became much more sensitive, and trainers
aren't sure how long it takes for the drug to leave a horse's
system.

   ``A lot of guys thought they could use it seven days out, and
then on Sunday or Monday, the word came that it was 14,'' Panza
said. ``Obviously, (the problem) is going to work itself out, but
it'll probably affect us through (June) 20th, I would think.''

   Amid speculation over the legal and/or illegal use of
clenbuterol, four local trainers' barns have been searched this
month by the California Horse Racing Board and other law
enforcement agencies.

   Elsewhere: The non-race of the weekend finds Silver Charm _ the
Real Quiet of 1997 _ carrying 12 pounds more than his closest rival
in the Stephen Foster Handicap at Churchill Downs on Saturday.

   The purse for the 1[-mile race was raised from $500,000 to
$750,000 to attract the popular colt. So he, like Skip Away in the
Massachusetts Handicap last month, can earn a big check without
facing anybody.

   Silver Charm will carry a career-high 127 pounds. Trainer Bob
Baffert also entered Semoran (114). The field from the rail out:
Silver Charm (Gary Stevens riding); Precocity (Carlos Gonzalez),
115; Semoran (Desormeaux); Relic Reward (Calvin Borel), 110;
Announce (Francisco Torres), 110; Awesome Again (Pat Day), 113, and
Robb (Shane Sellers), 109. Silver Charm, who hasn't raced since
winning the Dubai World Cup in March, worked 5 furlongs in :59
Monday at Churchill.

   ``I don't really have him cranked up full steam,'' Baffert said.
``Win, lose or draw, he's going to get a good race out of it. I
don't expect him to lose. It would take some bad luck on his part
to get beat, but you never know.'' &QL;
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By KEVIN MODESTI  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   INGLEWOOD _ When it comes to producing a commercial for
thoroughbred racing, a pair of horses did a better job than the men
who run the sport.

   Certainly, the new ``Go Baby Go'' campaign has increased
racing's exposure. If you haven't seen the commercials starring
``Tank Girl'' Lori Petty, you aren't watching enough TV.

   But the Belmont Stakes duel between Triple Crown hopeful Real
Quiet and winner Victory Gallop showed racing at its best _ better
than anything man-made could.

   Historic implications, a big field of horses, the tightest
Belmont Stakes finish in 36 years, strategic issues anybody could
grasp, a hint of post-race controversy over the late bumping,
classy reactions from the winners and losers _ racing needed a
skeptical nation to see all that a lot more than it needed a Triple
Crown winner.

   This week I've found more nonracing fans wanting to talk about
horses, and receptive to invitations to the track, than ever
before.

   To the National Thoroughbred Racing Association: How about
taking a tape of the last 30 seconds of the Belmont and making
!ital!that your commercial?

   $1 million pick-six: Putting on a great race is one way to sell
the sport. Giving away money is another.

   Hollywood Park proposes to do the latter on Sunday.

   The track is guaranteeing the pick-six pool will be at least $1
million (before the 20 percent takeout) that afternoon. In other
words, if fans bet less than that on the pick-six, which covers
races 5 through 10, Hollywood Park management will make up the
difference.

   It's hard to predict how big the pool could get, but with so
much advance publicity, and with fans in at least 36 other states
contributing, it could reach several million dollars. As always, 70
percent of the pool will be split among fans picking all six
winners, and 30 percent will go those with the next highest number.

   The record pool for a Hollywood Park pick-six _ $2,388,186 after
two carryover days in 1985 _ could fall. The national record _
$6,657,311 after five carryover days at Santa Anita in 1991 _
appears safe.

   Racing secretary Martin Panza saved some of his most popular
race conditions for Sunday and came up with pick-six races
averaging more than 10 horses. Entries were taken Thursday, and
past-performance charts will appear in Saturday's Daily Racing
Form, giving fans an extra day to handicap.

   The big race: The pick-six races Sunday include the $400,000
Shoemaker Breeders' Cup Mile. The Grade II event is the richest
mile turf-race leading up to the $1 million Breeders' Cup Mile at
Churchill Downs on Nov. 8.

   The seven-horse field features five graded stakes winners.
Hawksley Hill, ridden by Gary Stevens, comes off a swift win in the
San Francisco Mile, one of three Grade II victories; his Neil
Drysdale stablemate, Labeeb, with Kent Desormeaux, is a multiple
stakes winner who started his 1998 season by taking the Arcadia
Handicap; likely pacesetter Expelled, with Alex Solis, won the
Grade I Eddie Read at 23-1 last summer but hasn't raced since
getting hurt in the Oak Tree Turf Championship in October; and
Fantastic Fellow, with Corey Nakatani, won the Grade III Inglewood
on this course.

   Confusion: Hollywood Park has struggled to fill races recently,
at least partly because trainers who have been training horses with
clenbuterol are afraid of failing post-race tests.

   Clenbuterol, which aids horses' breathing, was made legal by the
Food and Drug Administration last month, but is still prohibited
for horses in competition. Meanwhile, the urine tests for
clenbuterol recently became much more sensitive, and trainers
aren't sure how long it takes for the drug to leave a horse's
system.

   ``A lot of guys thought they could use it seven days out, and
then on Sunday or Monday, the word came that it was 14,'' Panza
said. ``Obviously, (the problem) is going to work itself out, but
it'll probably affect us through (June) 20th, I would think.''

   Amid speculation over the legal and/or illegal use of
clenbuterol, four local trainers' barns have been searched this
month by the California Horse Racing Board and other law
enforcement agencies.

   Elsewhere: The non-race of the weekend finds Silver Charm _ the
Real Quiet of 1997 _ carrying 12 pounds more than his closest rival
in the Stephen Foster Handicap at Churchill Downs on Saturday.

   The purse for the 1[-mile race was raised from $500,000 to
$750,000 to attract the popular colt. So he, like Skip Away in the
Massachusetts Handicap last month, can earn a big check without
facing anybody.

   Silver Charm will carry a career-high 127 pounds. Trainer Bob
Baffert also entered Semoran (114). The field from the rail out:
Silver Charm (Gary Stevens riding); Precocity (Carlos Gonzalez),
115; Semoran (Desormeaux); Relic Reward (Calvin Borel), 110;
Announce (Francisco Torres), 110; Awesome Again (Pat Day), 113, and
Robb (Shane Sellers), 109. Silver Charm, who hasn't raced since
winning the Dubai World Cup in March, worked 5 furlongs in :59
Monday at Churchill.

   ``I don't really have him cranked up full steam,'' Baffert said.
``Win, lose or draw, he's going to get a good race out of it. I
don't expect him to lose. It would take some bad luck on his part
to get beat, but you never know.'' &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0395 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:09 ',
			header: '
A5563 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-RACIAL-ATTACK-HNS &LR;      06-11 0893
',
			slug: ' BC-RACIAL-ATTACK-HNS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   By RICHARD STEWART &QL;

   and STEVE LASH &QL;

   1998c. Houston Chronicle

   JASPER, Texas _ A multi-agency task force headed by the FBI took
over the investigation Thursday into the slaying of a black man as
Attorney General Janet Reno vowed the Justice Department will
``leave no stone unturned'' in seeking justice for the alleged hate
crime.

   Local law enforcement leaders seemed to breathe a sigh of
relief.

   ``We welcome all the help we can get. We've been flooded with
everyday, routine police business,'' said Jasper County Sheriff
Billy Rowles.

   Jasper County District Attorney Guy James Gray said he hopes
federal civil rights charges can be brought against the three
suspects, all young white men from East Texas. Two were suspected
of ties to white supremacist groups.

   A federal trial would allow them to be prosecuted in federal
courts with U.S. attorneys. Otherwise, Gray said, ``I told the
county judge to up the tax rate.''

   If all three are charged with capital murder in state court and
tried separately, the trials could end up costing Jasper County $1
million, he said.

   James Byrd Jr., a 49-year-old ex-convict and father of three,
was beaten and dragged for almost three &UR;  &LR; miles behind a pickup
along a winding back country road. Walking home from a family party
early Sunday, he had accepted a ride home with the three suspects.

   The three men were arrested and charged with murder Tuesday,
although both local and federal prosecutors are trying to get the
evidence to charge them with capital murder, punishable by death.
The suspects, all three ex-cons, are Lawrence Brewer, 31, of
Sulphur Springs, and Shawn Berry and John William ``Bill'' King,
both 23 of Jasper.

   Under Texas law, a capital murder charge requires that a murder
be committed with a second felony. In this case, the district
attorney says, prosecutors are hoping to include kidnapping as a
second crime.

   For the case to be prosecuted in federal court, prosecutors
would also have to prove that Byrd was denied certain
constitutional rights during the crime.

   The Justice Department's civil rights division, FBI and local
U.S. attorney's office are working closely with area law
enforcement and prosecutors, Reno said in Washington Thursday.

   Some lawmakers want to see the federal government take a more
active long-term role in such cases.

   In a speech on the House floor supporting a resolution
condemning the Jasper slaying, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, D-Texas,
asked the attorney general to form an ongoing task force to
investigate hate crimes.

   She was among dozens of legislators from all parties and of all
races who spoke emotionally about the killing in Jasper. Many
pointed out that Byrd's death is just the latest of several recent
violent incidents motivated by racism.

   ``Texas is not a poster child for hatred,'' Jackson Lee said.
``Crimes such as this happen all over this nation.''

   The House resolution, which also extended condolences to Byrd's
family, passed on a 397-0 vote.

   Rep. Jim Turner, D-Texas, whose district encompasses Jasper,
said: ``For all of us who believe that racial prejudice and hatred
have no place in American society, this tragic event is a reminder
that much is left to be done, that no American is safe until every
American treats his neighbor with dignity, regardless of the color
of his skin.

   ``Let us renew our commitment to root out the vestiges of racial
prejudice, that the tragic death of James Byrd not be in vain.''

   The Jasper investigative task force will be led by Herbert
Cousins, assistant special agent in charge of the Houston FBI
office, which will supply eight to 10 agents. The Jasper County
Sheriff's Department, the Jasper Police Department, the Texas
Rangers and a regional drug and intelligence task force will
provide two investigators per agency, said Sheriff Rowles.

   Rowles said that every law enforcement agency within 200 miles
has offered to help in the investigation. Many of his 14 deputies
have had to handle routine law enforcement calls during their days
off because they have been so busy with the Byrd investigation.

   ``City police have been volunteering to work on their days off
and to work without overtime,'' he said.

   Meanwhile, Berry, King and Brewer remain in the Jasper County
Jail on murder charges. Rowles said he has closed the jail to
visitors for security reasons, although he said there have been no
death threats against the suspects.

   All three men were convicted burglars. While in prison, King and
Brewer had been monitored for possible affiliation with the Ku Klux
Klan and a skinhead group, a prison official said. Berry has given
police a detailed statement about Byrd's slaying in which he said
he had no role in killing him, blaming that on his two companions.

   The grandfather of Christie Marie Marcontell who is the mother
of Berry's 9-month-old son, said the suspect telephoned his
granddaughter from jail.

   ``He's doing all right, but he's scared to death,'' Elmer
Marcontell said.

   He said Berry was in a separate cell but he was being taunted by
black inmates in the same cell block.

   XXXXXXXX END OF STORY
',
			body: '

  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
MULTI-AGENCY TASK FORCE TAKES OVER INVESTIGATION INTO SLAYING OF
BLACK MAN

',
			paragraphs: '
   By RICHARD STEWART &QL;

   and STEVE LASH &QL;

   1998c. Houston Chronicle

   JASPER, Texas _ A multi-agency task force headed by the FBI took
over the investigation Thursday into the slaying of a black man as
Attorney General Janet Reno vowed the Justice Department will
``leave no stone unturned'' in seeking justice for the alleged hate
crime.

   Local law enforcement leaders seemed to breathe a sigh of
relief.

   ``We welcome all the help we can get. We've been flooded with
everyday, routine police business,'' said Jasper County Sheriff
Billy Rowles.

   Jasper County District Attorney Guy James Gray said he hopes
federal civil rights charges can be brought against the three
suspects, all young white men from East Texas. Two were suspected
of ties to white supremacist groups.

   A federal trial would allow them to be prosecuted in federal
courts with U.S. attorneys. Otherwise, Gray said, ``I told the
county judge to up the tax rate.''

   If all three are charged with capital murder in state court and
tried separately, the trials could end up costing Jasper County $1
million, he said.

   James Byrd Jr., a 49-year-old ex-convict and father of three,
was beaten and dragged for almost three &UR;  &LR; miles behind a pickup
along a winding back country road. Walking home from a family party
early Sunday, he had accepted a ride home with the three suspects.

   The three men were arrested and charged with murder Tuesday,
although both local and federal prosecutors are trying to get the
evidence to charge them with capital murder, punishable by death.
The suspects, all three ex-cons, are Lawrence Brewer, 31, of
Sulphur Springs, and Shawn Berry and John William ``Bill'' King,
both 23 of Jasper.

   Under Texas law, a capital murder charge requires that a murder
be committed with a second felony. In this case, the district
attorney says, prosecutors are hoping to include kidnapping as a
second crime.

   For the case to be prosecuted in federal court, prosecutors
would also have to prove that Byrd was denied certain
constitutional rights during the crime.

   The Justice Department's civil rights division, FBI and local
U.S. attorney's office are working closely with area law
enforcement and prosecutors, Reno said in Washington Thursday.

   Some lawmakers want to see the federal government take a more
active long-term role in such cases.

   In a speech on the House floor supporting a resolution
condemning the Jasper slaying, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, D-Texas,
asked the attorney general to form an ongoing task force to
investigate hate crimes.

   She was among dozens of legislators from all parties and of all
races who spoke emotionally about the killing in Jasper. Many
pointed out that Byrd's death is just the latest of several recent
violent incidents motivated by racism.

   ``Texas is not a poster child for hatred,'' Jackson Lee said.
``Crimes such as this happen all over this nation.''

   The House resolution, which also extended condolences to Byrd's
family, passed on a 397-0 vote.

   Rep. Jim Turner, D-Texas, whose district encompasses Jasper,
said: ``For all of us who believe that racial prejudice and hatred
have no place in American society, this tragic event is a reminder
that much is left to be done, that no American is safe until every
American treats his neighbor with dignity, regardless of the color
of his skin.

   ``Let us renew our commitment to root out the vestiges of racial
prejudice, that the tragic death of James Byrd not be in vain.''

   The Jasper investigative task force will be led by Herbert
Cousins, assistant special agent in charge of the Houston FBI
office, which will supply eight to 10 agents. The Jasper County
Sheriff's Department, the Jasper Police Department, the Texas
Rangers and a regional drug and intelligence task force will
provide two investigators per agency, said Sheriff Rowles.

   Rowles said that every law enforcement agency within 200 miles
has offered to help in the investigation. Many of his 14 deputies
have had to handle routine law enforcement calls during their days
off because they have been so busy with the Byrd investigation.

   ``City police have been volunteering to work on their days off
and to work without overtime,'' he said.

   Meanwhile, Berry, King and Brewer remain in the Jasper County
Jail on murder charges. Rowles said he has closed the jail to
visitors for security reasons, although he said there have been no
death threats against the suspects.

   All three men were convicted burglars. While in prison, King and
Brewer had been monitored for possible affiliation with the Ku Klux
Klan and a skinhead group, a prison official said. Berry has given
police a detailed statement about Byrd's slaying in which he said
he had no role in killing him, blaming that on his two companions.

   The grandfather of Christie Marie Marcontell who is the mother
of Berry's 9-month-old son, said the suspect telephoned his
granddaughter from jail.

   ``He's doing all right, but he's scared to death,'' Elmer
Marcontell said.

   He said Berry was in a separate cell but he was being taunted by
black inmates in the same cell block.

   XXXXXXXX END OF STORY
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0396 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:13 ',
			header: '
A5569 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PUBLIC-LIVES-NYT &LR;      06-11 0636
',
			slug: ' BC-PUBLIC-LIVES-NYT ',
			headline: '
A HEARST UNVEILS  
 LACK OF CHIVALRY  
 A FAMILY UNCORKS  
 MUSIC NOTES  
 CELEBRITY SPOTTING 
',
			trailer: '
   This sounds like a headline her grandfather would have printed:
PATRICIA HEARST bares all, or almost all. But Ms. Hearst's
striptease was not for a newspaper story; it was for the JOHN
WATERS film ``Pecker,'' which is scheduled to be released in the
fall. She plays an art collector.

   ``The day that Patricia Hearst arrived in Baltimore to start
work on this movie,'' said JEREMY WALKER, a spokesman for Waters,
``she went to his house. She undid the dress that she brought. It
dropped to the floor and she was wearing the slip that she's
wearing in the movie, and she said, `How's this?' John said, `It's
perfect.'''

   Ms. Hearst, who was kidnapped in 1974 and convicted of robbing a
bank with her captors, has been in the headlines this week because
a New Yorker magazine article said she had been the object of a
federal drug investigation.

   The inquiry began when a suspicious package was delivered to her
Connecticut home several months ago. Ms. Hearst called the local
police, but federal agents arrived; later they said they had been
tipped off that the package held narcotics. The New Yorker said Ms.
Hearst thought someone was trying to hurt her chances for a
presidential pardon.

   Lack of Chivalry

   NEW YORK _ QUENTIN TARANTINO, who parlayed his interest in crime
novels into such films as ``Pulp Fiction,'' was arrested Thursday
for assault. The charges stem from a fracas last month at a
restaurant on the Lower East Side.

   The police said that Tarantino argued with LEILA MWANGI, who
witnesses said was complaining about the way black people were
portrayed in his highly stylized films. Apparently Tarantino did
not take her criticisms well and struck her with his fist, said
DETECTIVE JOSEPH PENTANGELO, a police spokesman.

   A Family Uncorks

   NEW YORK _ There was a bit of a mystery at a dinner at La
Caravelle restaurant in Manhattan on Thursday night celebrating the
300th anniversary of Krug Clos du Mesnil champagne: How could there
be a tricentennial if the Krug family did not begin producing wine
until 1843?

   ``The vineyard itself was indeed established in 1698,'' said
CAROLINE KRUG, 32, the company's heiress-apparent.

   Ah, oui. ``Our catalog states this chronology clearly,'' said
MICHAEL BROADBENT, chairman of the international wine department at
Christie's, the Manhattan auction house, which is scheduled to
auction 27 lots of Clos du Mesnil on Friday for up to $600 a
magnum.

   Music Notes

   NEW YORK _ It sounded like Christmas in June at the annual
dinner of the Songwriters' Hall of Fame on Wednesday: FREDDY COLE,
the younger brother of Nat King Cole, performed ``The Christmas
Song'' (``Chestnuts roasting on an open fire ...'') in honor of MEL
TORME, who wrote it. They screamed and squealed the way they did in
the old days.

   But the 200 Menudo groupies who greeted the Latin teen-age
sensation at La Guardia Airport on Thursday are grown-ups now. The
quintet was arriving for the Puerto Rican Day parade on Sunday. ``I
guess they've grown up a little bit,'' said one fan, GAIL COLON,
who admitted to having done some growing up herself. ``But they're
still my age.''

   Celebrity Spotting

   BEN CRENSHAW, the two-time Masters champion, was seen at the
East Hampton Point restaurant in East Hampton, N.Y., with BONNIE
BISTRIAN and her husband, BEN KRUPINSKI, the contractor to the
stars who labored on Martha Stewart's 24-room house and is also an
owner of East Hampton Point. Were they planning a golf date? Ms.
Bistrian and her brother, Barry, want to build a golf course, but
environmentalists have raised objections.
',
			body: '


  (lb) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   This sounds like a headline her grandfather would have printed:
PATRICIA HEARST bares all, or almost all. But Ms. Hearst's
striptease was not for a newspaper story; it was for the JOHN
WATERS film ``Pecker,'' which is scheduled to be released in the
fall. She plays an art collector.

   ``The day that Patricia Hearst arrived in Baltimore to start
work on this movie,'' said JEREMY WALKER, a spokesman for Waters,
``she went to his house. She undid the dress that she brought. It
dropped to the floor and she was wearing the slip that she's
wearing in the movie, and she said, `How's this?' John said, `It's
perfect.'''

   Ms. Hearst, who was kidnapped in 1974 and convicted of robbing a
bank with her captors, has been in the headlines this week because
a New Yorker magazine article said she had been the object of a
federal drug investigation.

   The inquiry began when a suspicious package was delivered to her
Connecticut home several months ago. Ms. Hearst called the local
police, but federal agents arrived; later they said they had been
tipped off that the package held narcotics. The New Yorker said Ms.
Hearst thought someone was trying to hurt her chances for a
presidential pardon.

   Lack of Chivalry

   NEW YORK _ QUENTIN TARANTINO, who parlayed his interest in crime
novels into such films as ``Pulp Fiction,'' was arrested Thursday
for assault. The charges stem from a fracas last month at a
restaurant on the Lower East Side.

   The police said that Tarantino argued with LEILA MWANGI, who
witnesses said was complaining about the way black people were
portrayed in his highly stylized films. Apparently Tarantino did
not take her criticisms well and struck her with his fist, said
DETECTIVE JOSEPH PENTANGELO, a police spokesman.

   A Family Uncorks

   NEW YORK _ There was a bit of a mystery at a dinner at La
Caravelle restaurant in Manhattan on Thursday night celebrating the
300th anniversary of Krug Clos du Mesnil champagne: How could there
be a tricentennial if the Krug family did not begin producing wine
until 1843?

   ``The vineyard itself was indeed established in 1698,'' said
CAROLINE KRUG, 32, the company's heiress-apparent.

   Ah, oui. ``Our catalog states this chronology clearly,'' said
MICHAEL BROADBENT, chairman of the international wine department at
Christie's, the Manhattan auction house, which is scheduled to
auction 27 lots of Clos du Mesnil on Friday for up to $600 a
magnum.

   Music Notes

   NEW YORK _ It sounded like Christmas in June at the annual
dinner of the Songwriters' Hall of Fame on Wednesday: FREDDY COLE,
the younger brother of Nat King Cole, performed ``The Christmas
Song'' (``Chestnuts roasting on an open fire ...'') in honor of MEL
TORME, who wrote it. They screamed and squealed the way they did in
the old days.

   But the 200 Menudo groupies who greeted the Latin teen-age
sensation at La Guardia Airport on Thursday are grown-ups now. The
quintet was arriving for the Puerto Rican Day parade on Sunday. ``I
guess they've grown up a little bit,'' said one fan, GAIL COLON,
who admitted to having done some growing up herself. ``But they're
still my age.''

   Celebrity Spotting

   BEN CRENSHAW, the two-time Masters champion, was seen at the
East Hampton Point restaurant in East Hampton, N.Y., with BONNIE
BISTRIAN and her husband, BEN KRUPINSKI, the contractor to the
stars who labored on Martha Stewart's 24-room house and is also an
owner of East Hampton Point. Were they planning a golf date? Ms.
Bistrian and her brother, Barry, want to build a golf course, but
environmentalists have raised objections.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0397 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:17 ',
			header: '
A5571 &Cx1f; taf-z
u k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EDIT-WIS-CHURCH-STATE     06-11 0522
',
			slug: ' BC-EDIT-WIS-CHURCH-STATE-NYT ',
			headline: '
EDITORIAL: BREACHING THE CHURCH-STATE WALL 
',
			trailer: '
   The New York Times said in an editorial on Friday, June 12:

   The Wisconsin Supreme Court's decision upholding the use of
public funds for parochial school tuition strikes at the very heart
of the constitutionally mandated separation of church and state
that has served American society so well. Although a few recent
U.S. Supreme Court decisions have relaxed strictures against using
public money to support certain activities in parochial schools,
those cases have dealt with tangential and very limited benefits to
the church-sponsored institutions. No appellate court, including
the Supreme Court, has ever allowed the huge transfer of taxpayer
money that the Wisconsin voucher program will put into parochial
school coffers.

   The voucher plan allows up to 15,000 low-income students in
Milwaukee to attend private or parochial schools with tuition paid
fully by the state. Currently, only 1,500 students have used the
vouchers to attend private, nonsectarian schools. The program's
growth depends on enrolling thousands of students in parochial
schools.

   Under the funding plan, the state will pay the parochial schools
the full cost of instruction for each voucher-bearing student or
$4,700, the amount the state currently spends on each student in
the Milwaukee public school system. For each student who transfers
out, the public schools lose $4,700. The potential loss to the
Milwaukee public schools could reach $70 million a year.

   The state court argues that the voucher program, by giving
students the choice of a private or parochial school, is
religion-neutral. But this veneer of choice does not change the
fact that taxpayer dollars would flow into sectarian institutions
in contravention of the First Amendment prohibition against the
establishment of religion. Many church schools that would be
tax-funded have religious indoctrination as a core purpose.

   The Wisconsin court's narrow analysis is naive on several
levels. It fails to recognize the desire of many voucher proponents
to add religious content to public education. It also fails to
foresee the patronage bonanza that would result among politicians
competing to funnel tax revenues to the institutions favored by
their constituents, whether they be urban Catholics in Northern
cities or suburban Protestants in the Sun Belt.

   The Wisconsin decision, if upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court,
would have a devastating impact on public education nationwide.
Many states will follow the Wisconsin example, given the power of
the religious lobbies. Parents will essentially be left to choose
between a state-supported private education system and the old
public school system. As more families opt out of the public
schools, those schools will starve. The downward spiral is easy to
map. The question now is whether the U.S. Supreme Court will have
the wisdom to see that vouchers attack not only constitutional
principles but the common schools that are essential institutions
for a democratic society. &QL;
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   The New York Times said in an editorial on Friday, June 12:

   The Wisconsin Supreme Court's decision upholding the use of
public funds for parochial school tuition strikes at the very heart
of the constitutionally mandated separation of church and state
that has served American society so well. Although a few recent
U.S. Supreme Court decisions have relaxed strictures against using
public money to support certain activities in parochial schools,
those cases have dealt with tangential and very limited benefits to
the church-sponsored institutions. No appellate court, including
the Supreme Court, has ever allowed the huge transfer of taxpayer
money that the Wisconsin voucher program will put into parochial
school coffers.

   The voucher plan allows up to 15,000 low-income students in
Milwaukee to attend private or parochial schools with tuition paid
fully by the state. Currently, only 1,500 students have used the
vouchers to attend private, nonsectarian schools. The program's
growth depends on enrolling thousands of students in parochial
schools.

   Under the funding plan, the state will pay the parochial schools
the full cost of instruction for each voucher-bearing student or
$4,700, the amount the state currently spends on each student in
the Milwaukee public school system. For each student who transfers
out, the public schools lose $4,700. The potential loss to the
Milwaukee public schools could reach $70 million a year.

   The state court argues that the voucher program, by giving
students the choice of a private or parochial school, is
religion-neutral. But this veneer of choice does not change the
fact that taxpayer dollars would flow into sectarian institutions
in contravention of the First Amendment prohibition against the
establishment of religion. Many church schools that would be
tax-funded have religious indoctrination as a core purpose.

   The Wisconsin court's narrow analysis is naive on several
levels. It fails to recognize the desire of many voucher proponents
to add religious content to public education. It also fails to
foresee the patronage bonanza that would result among politicians
competing to funnel tax revenues to the institutions favored by
their constituents, whether they be urban Catholics in Northern
cities or suburban Protestants in the Sun Belt.

   The Wisconsin decision, if upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court,
would have a devastating impact on public education nationwide.
Many states will follow the Wisconsin example, given the power of
the religious lobbies. Parents will essentially be left to choose
between a state-supported private education system and the old
public school system. As more families opt out of the public
schools, those schools will starve. The downward spiral is easy to
map. The question now is whether the U.S. Supreme Court will have
the wisdom to see that vouchers attack not only constitutional
principles but the common schools that are essential institutions
for a democratic society. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0398 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:28 ',
			header: '
A5576 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-SCHOOLS-MATH-450&AMP;A     06-11 0756
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-SCHOOLS-MATH-450&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
NEW YORK STUDENTS SHOW IMPROVEMENT IN MATH, AGAIN 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ For the sixth year in a row, New York City
schoolchildren showed improvement on an annual citywide mathematics
test given this spring, with overall scores surpassing the national
average but several local districts lagging behind.

   The results, which followed gains on reading tests announced
last week, caused Board of Education officials and some outside the
system to beam. Overall, in the city's 32 local school districts,
63.1 percent of students who took the test in English scored at or
above grade level, a 2.7 percentage point increase over last year,
leading Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew to praise their ``commanding
performance.''

   Still, the results raised questions about whether the
achievement showed improvement in math aptitude or in test-taking.
The exam, the California Achievement Test in math, was given to
third- through eighth-graders and is scored in such a way that,
nationally, half the students will score at or above their grade
level and half below.

   All but three community school districts in New York City showed
improvement over last year on the math test. In those three, the
drop was no worse than half a percentage point.

   All grades showed improvement, ranging from a 5.3 point increase
among sixth-graders (to 65.1 percent performing at or above grade
level) to a 0.2 point increase among fourth-graders (to 66.8
percent).

   Students in the lower grades performed better than their older
peers, but the largest improvement came in upper grades, with the
sixth grade leading the way. Seventh (57.3 percent) increased 4.3
points and eighth (59.7 percent) increased 4.8 points.

   ``I was pleased to see the biggest increase was in the higher
grades,'' said Richard Mills, the state's education commissioner,
who noted that these students would face stiffer high school
graduation requirements that are being phased in.

   But the results also revealed weaknesses among the 438,080
students who took the test, about 7,000 more than last year.

   Students whose English was limited continued to be far behind
everybody else, though they scored slightly better this year than
last. Seven districts scored only at or below the national average,
with the poorest showing from the special district of chronically
failing schools that Crew placed directly under his control two
years ago.

   The score in that district, which Crew has said will need
several years to improve to citywide norms, was 39.7 percent, a
7.7-point increase over last year.

   People in and out of the system lauded the overall results,
though some questioned whether the results were a reflection of
better learning or better test preparation.

   Frances Curcio, an associate professor of math education at New
York University, said many districts have improved the training of
math teachers and developed more engaging ways to teach math.

   But use of the test over several years introduces a caveat, she
said. ``The more familiar a teacher becomes with the test _ how the
questions are framed, how the items are presented _ those things
find their way into teaching instruction, and the result of the
test becomes more a result of how familiar students are with the
kinds of items than really what they know,'' she said.

   Robert Tobias, director of the Board of Education's testing
division, said the exam defined ``what we want teachers to teach
and kids to learn. A growing familiarity with the test really means
kids are learning the skills and applications required by the
test.''

   The argument over what the test really measured may be
short-lived. Next year, fourth- and eighth-graders will take a new,
more challenging state test, and students in third, fifth, sixth
and seventh grades will face a more difficult city test.

   Officials in better-performing districts held up the results as
a testament to their teaching methods.

   Sonia Diaz Salcedo, the superintendent of Community School
District 1 in Manhattan, said the district's 7.6 point improvement
_ the highest in the system _ resulted from better training of
teachers and from making the subjects more relevant to students.
``The most important piece was teaching in such a way that kids
feel it is relevant and real,'' said Ms. Diaz Salcedo, whose
district scored 60 percent.
',
			body: '


  (lb) 
 By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ For the sixth year in a row, New York City
schoolchildren showed improvement on an annual citywide mathematics
test given this spring, with overall scores surpassing the national
average but several local districts lagging behind.

   The results, which followed gains on reading tests announced
last week, caused Board of Education officials and some outside the
system to beam. Overall, in the city's 32 local school districts,
63.1 percent of students who took the test in English scored at or
above grade level, a 2.7 percentage point increase over last year,
leading Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew to praise their ``commanding
performance.''

   Still, the results raised questions about whether the
achievement showed improvement in math aptitude or in test-taking.
The exam, the California Achievement Test in math, was given to
third- through eighth-graders and is scored in such a way that,
nationally, half the students will score at or above their grade
level and half below.

   All but three community school districts in New York City showed
improvement over last year on the math test. In those three, the
drop was no worse than half a percentage point.

   All grades showed improvement, ranging from a 5.3 point increase
among sixth-graders (to 65.1 percent performing at or above grade
level) to a 0.2 point increase among fourth-graders (to 66.8
percent).

   Students in the lower grades performed better than their older
peers, but the largest improvement came in upper grades, with the
sixth grade leading the way. Seventh (57.3 percent) increased 4.3
points and eighth (59.7 percent) increased 4.8 points.

   ``I was pleased to see the biggest increase was in the higher
grades,'' said Richard Mills, the state's education commissioner,
who noted that these students would face stiffer high school
graduation requirements that are being phased in.

   But the results also revealed weaknesses among the 438,080
students who took the test, about 7,000 more than last year.

   Students whose English was limited continued to be far behind
everybody else, though they scored slightly better this year than
last. Seven districts scored only at or below the national average,
with the poorest showing from the special district of chronically
failing schools that Crew placed directly under his control two
years ago.

   The score in that district, which Crew has said will need
several years to improve to citywide norms, was 39.7 percent, a
7.7-point increase over last year.

   People in and out of the system lauded the overall results,
though some questioned whether the results were a reflection of
better learning or better test preparation.

   Frances Curcio, an associate professor of math education at New
York University, said many districts have improved the training of
math teachers and developed more engaging ways to teach math.

   But use of the test over several years introduces a caveat, she
said. ``The more familiar a teacher becomes with the test _ how the
questions are framed, how the items are presented _ those things
find their way into teaching instruction, and the result of the
test becomes more a result of how familiar students are with the
kinds of items than really what they know,'' she said.

   Robert Tobias, director of the Board of Education's testing
division, said the exam defined ``what we want teachers to teach
and kids to learn. A growing familiarity with the test really means
kids are learning the skills and applications required by the
test.''

   The argument over what the test really measured may be
short-lived. Next year, fourth- and eighth-graders will take a new,
more challenging state test, and students in third, fifth, sixth
and seventh grades will face a more difficult city test.

   Officials in better-performing districts held up the results as
a testament to their teaching methods.

   Sonia Diaz Salcedo, the superintendent of Community School
District 1 in Manhattan, said the district's 7.6 point improvement
_ the highest in the system _ resulted from better training of
teachers and from making the subjects more relevant to students.
``The most important piece was teaching in such a way that kids
feel it is relevant and real,'' said Ms. Diaz Salcedo, whose
district scored 60 percent.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0399 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:29 ',
			header: '
A5577 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BBN-MUNOZ-LADN     06-11 0935
',
			slug: ' BC-BBN-MUNOZ-LADN ',
			headline: '
ROCKIES' MUNOZ TOSSES NUMBERS ASIDE
',
			trailer: '
   ANAHEIM -- Colorado reliever Mike Munoz once had a foolproof
method of dealing with a rocky outing. The next morning, he'd
search for a pitcher in the box scores who had been hit even
harder.

   ``Misery loves company,'' he'd say over his cornflakes.
``Someone out there had a worse game. Yeah, he had a worse game.''

   Then, Munoz felt better. Until three years ago, when he ended
that practice because wishing ill-will on others started bothering
his conscience.

   That is good, because Munoz got shelled in his first appearance
this season.

   The Houston Astros treated him like a minor leaguer on April 3
in the Astrodome, scoring seven times on eight hits before Munoz
finally got out of the seventh inning. The Astros sent him to the
visitors' showers with a 63.00 earned-run average.

   Once in the clubhouse, his mind raced. He thought all his
teammates were looking at him, thinking, ``What's he still doing
here (in the majors)?'' You're always harder on yourself than
anyone else is, he reasoned. So that feeling didn't linger.''

   The Mike Munoz of old would have been satisfied the following
morning, upon discovering in the paper that Tampa Bay's Ramon Tatis
(four runs in a third of an inning) and Minnesota's Frank Rodriguez
(three runs in a third of an inning) had had worse outings.

   But Munoz, 32, is hardly the same person he was three years ago,
or when he pitched at Bishop Amat High School and Cal Poly Pomona.
Numbers, he now knows, hardly measure a man.

   ``I like to look at guys and see what kind of people they are,''
Munoz said before a recent game at Edison Field. ``There are some
guys in this game who have great numbers and aren't very nice
people, and vice versa. And I like to look at people for who they
are, what kind of people they are.

   ``That gets back to not getting caught up in the numbers. I
don't want to judge someone for what kind of numbers they have,
good or bad. There are some idiots out there who have great
numbers. I don't want to give someone credit for being a great
person because he has great numbers.''

   Many media outlets and other factions of society, according to
Munoz, accomplish that job.

   ``So if I look at other people like that,'' he said, ``I need to
check myself.''

   Munoz does, however, still check some numbers. He yielded no
runs in a brief stint against the Texas Rangers the other night,
which shaved his ERA to 9.64. After that hideous start, a
single-digits ERA is nice.

   The attractive double-digit figure is his professional baseball
tenure, which hits 13 years after this season. Not bad for a
left-handed set-up pitcher. After spells with the Dodgers and
Detroit Tigers, Munoz struck a deal with Colorado in 1993.

   His base salary is $585,000 this season, his seventh in the
majors, and he can earn a $5,000 bonus for 45 appearances, $10,000
at 50, 55 and 60, and $15,000 if he appears in 65 games.

   ``You don't know when it's going to end,'' Munoz said. ``It's
always in the back of your head, especially when you're struggling
-- `Is this the start of the end?' You find yourself writing your
retirement speech. Then you go out and have a couple of good games,
and they can't pay you enough.''

   Colorado pitching coach Frank Funk believes Munoz will be around
awhile longer.

   ``He's healthy, and everyone needs lefthanders,'' Funk said. ``I
hope we can hang on to him. As far as his future is concerned, I
think he's going to have a job for a long time, whether it's with
us or someone else.''

   Remaining on an even keel is the key for Munoz, who no longer
reads local papers and tries to remain as unemotional about
retiring the side as he does about getting shelled for seven runs.

   As of a late 1997 meeting with Funk in New York, Munoz is also
no longer afraid to throw his curve ball in a key situation.

   ``He just didn't have faith in it,'' Funk said. ``He had the
idea that if he hung it, they were going to hit it out. I said,
`Sometimes they'll take it, sometimes they'll pop it up and
sometimes they'll hit it on their fists. They won't hit it out
every time.'

   ``He got beyond that.''

   Munoz didn't care to name any of the players who he's seen and
heard enough from to know that their lofty statistics belie their
true character.

   Neither did he care to analyze the topic too deeply. But it
comes up often in the Colorado bullpen.

   ``You know what?'' Munoz told his fellow relievers recently.
``When it's time for me to get out of the game, I'd love for people
to say, `You know what, Mike Munoz ... he was a good guy and
treated everyone well.'''

   With a wife and two young daughters in Texas, Munoz puts his
family first. He deeply admires peers of his who also place their
families on a pedestal.

   ``He's a very sensitive person, a very down-to-earth guy,'' Funk
said. ``I don't think any amount of fame or fortune would change
him at all, and I think that's the way everyone looks at him. He'll
get his wish. When he gets out of this game, nobody will remember
Mike Munoz the player as anything but a good guy.''

   Perhaps that's why Munoz is one of the most popular Rockies in a
team promotion in which Denver-area youngsters can get videotaped
throwing a baseball around with their favorite player.

   ``A class person,'' said Colorado bullpen coach Bill Hayes of
Munoz. ``A good family man, and he comes to the ballpark and does
his work. A true professional.''
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By ROB MIECH  
 San Gabriel Valley Tribune  

',
			paragraphs: '
   ANAHEIM -- Colorado reliever Mike Munoz once had a foolproof
method of dealing with a rocky outing. The next morning, he'd
search for a pitcher in the box scores who had been hit even
harder.

   ``Misery loves company,'' he'd say over his cornflakes.
``Someone out there had a worse game. Yeah, he had a worse game.''

   Then, Munoz felt better. Until three years ago, when he ended
that practice because wishing ill-will on others started bothering
his conscience.

   That is good, because Munoz got shelled in his first appearance
this season.

   The Houston Astros treated him like a minor leaguer on April 3
in the Astrodome, scoring seven times on eight hits before Munoz
finally got out of the seventh inning. The Astros sent him to the
visitors' showers with a 63.00 earned-run average.

   Once in the clubhouse, his mind raced. He thought all his
teammates were looking at him, thinking, ``What's he still doing
here (in the majors)?'' You're always harder on yourself than
anyone else is, he reasoned. So that feeling didn't linger.''

   The Mike Munoz of old would have been satisfied the following
morning, upon discovering in the paper that Tampa Bay's Ramon Tatis
(four runs in a third of an inning) and Minnesota's Frank Rodriguez
(three runs in a third of an inning) had had worse outings.

   But Munoz, 32, is hardly the same person he was three years ago,
or when he pitched at Bishop Amat High School and Cal Poly Pomona.
Numbers, he now knows, hardly measure a man.

   ``I like to look at guys and see what kind of people they are,''
Munoz said before a recent game at Edison Field. ``There are some
guys in this game who have great numbers and aren't very nice
people, and vice versa. And I like to look at people for who they
are, what kind of people they are.

   ``That gets back to not getting caught up in the numbers. I
don't want to judge someone for what kind of numbers they have,
good or bad. There are some idiots out there who have great
numbers. I don't want to give someone credit for being a great
person because he has great numbers.''

   Many media outlets and other factions of society, according to
Munoz, accomplish that job.

   ``So if I look at other people like that,'' he said, ``I need to
check myself.''

   Munoz does, however, still check some numbers. He yielded no
runs in a brief stint against the Texas Rangers the other night,
which shaved his ERA to 9.64. After that hideous start, a
single-digits ERA is nice.

   The attractive double-digit figure is his professional baseball
tenure, which hits 13 years after this season. Not bad for a
left-handed set-up pitcher. After spells with the Dodgers and
Detroit Tigers, Munoz struck a deal with Colorado in 1993.

   His base salary is $585,000 this season, his seventh in the
majors, and he can earn a $5,000 bonus for 45 appearances, $10,000
at 50, 55 and 60, and $15,000 if he appears in 65 games.

   ``You don't know when it's going to end,'' Munoz said. ``It's
always in the back of your head, especially when you're struggling
-- `Is this the start of the end?' You find yourself writing your
retirement speech. Then you go out and have a couple of good games,
and they can't pay you enough.''

   Colorado pitching coach Frank Funk believes Munoz will be around
awhile longer.

   ``He's healthy, and everyone needs lefthanders,'' Funk said. ``I
hope we can hang on to him. As far as his future is concerned, I
think he's going to have a job for a long time, whether it's with
us or someone else.''

   Remaining on an even keel is the key for Munoz, who no longer
reads local papers and tries to remain as unemotional about
retiring the side as he does about getting shelled for seven runs.

   As of a late 1997 meeting with Funk in New York, Munoz is also
no longer afraid to throw his curve ball in a key situation.

   ``He just didn't have faith in it,'' Funk said. ``He had the
idea that if he hung it, they were going to hit it out. I said,
`Sometimes they'll take it, sometimes they'll pop it up and
sometimes they'll hit it on their fists. They won't hit it out
every time.'

   ``He got beyond that.''

   Munoz didn't care to name any of the players who he's seen and
heard enough from to know that their lofty statistics belie their
true character.

   Neither did he care to analyze the topic too deeply. But it
comes up often in the Colorado bullpen.

   ``You know what?'' Munoz told his fellow relievers recently.
``When it's time for me to get out of the game, I'd love for people
to say, `You know what, Mike Munoz ... he was a good guy and
treated everyone well.'''

   With a wife and two young daughters in Texas, Munoz puts his
family first. He deeply admires peers of his who also place their
families on a pedestal.

   ``He's a very sensitive person, a very down-to-earth guy,'' Funk
said. ``I don't think any amount of fame or fortune would change
him at all, and I think that's the way everyone looks at him. He'll
get his wish. When he gets out of this game, nobody will remember
Mike Munoz the player as anything but a good guy.''

   Perhaps that's why Munoz is one of the most popular Rockies in a
team promotion in which Denver-area youngsters can get videotaped
throwing a baseball around with their favorite player.

   ``A class person,'' said Colorado bullpen coach Bill Hayes of
Munoz. ``A good family man, and he comes to the ballpark and does
his work. A true professional.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0400 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:30 ',
			header: '
A5578 &Cx1f; tta-z
u i &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-KOSOVO-NATO-1STLD-ART     06-11 0880
',
			slug: ' BC-KOSOVO-NATO-1STLD-ART-750(2TAKES)-NYT ',
			headline: '
NATO MINISTERS REQUEST CONTINGENCY PLANS FOR INTERVENTION IN
KOSOVO 
',
			trailer: '
   BRUSSELS, Belgium _ NATO defense ministers commissioned
contingency plans Thursday for bombing Serb military targets in
Kosovo and said they would stage a huge military exercise at
Serbia's doorstep as early as next week to give Yugoslav President
Slobodan Milosevic a taste of the power that could be turned on him
if he persists in attacks on the province.

   The demonstration of force, with simulated bombing and strafing
raids and mock troop deployments, will take place over Albanian and
Macedonian territory just across the border from Kosovo, the
province where an estimated 60,000 to 85,000 people have been
displaced by fighting in recent weeks.

   Defense ministers meeting at NATO headquarters in Brussels on
Thursday also ordered NATO military authorities to draw up
contingency plans for the possibility that NATO troops might
eventually be sent into Kosovo on peacekeeping missions, or to seal
off the border with Albania to keep the fighting from spreading
there.

   Russia and France, among other countries, are insisting that the
United Nations would have to authorize any use of force against the
Serbs, and getting that authorization could take time or even be
impossible.

   But, addressing the issue of the need for a U.N. blessing, U.S.
Defense Secretary William Cohen said, ``The United States does not
feel it's imperative. It's desirable, not imperative.''

   In Washington, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said, ``It
is not our desire to use force. Our desire is to solve this
diplomatically.''

   She told reporters, ``We do believe that the military planning
that has now been directed should be a very strong message to
Milosevic that what he is doing is unacceptable to the
international community.''

   The allies said they ordered a multinational air show with as
many planes, helicopters and troops from as many nations as they
could muster on short notice, but military authorities provided few
details about the upcoming aerial sabre-rattling, which might take
place 35 miles from the Serbian border, well out of Milosevic's
earshot or sight. Whether the planes would use live ammunition or
bombs would depend on whether they could drop them on military
firing ranges in Albania or Macedonia, officers said.

   If Serb gunners fired at them during the demonstration, one NATO
expert said, allied planes could take measures in self-defense
under rules that have applied in Bosnia-Herzegovina and most of the
rest of what was Yugoslavia since the war there.

   NATO foreign ministers just two weeks ago had requested military
plans for ``preventive deployments'' of troops, not in Kosovo but
across the border in Albania and Macedonia.

   But German Defense Minister Volker Ruehe said Thursday that this
had been a waste of time and had not kept the Serbs from sealing
off the border between Kosovo and Albania and using tanks,
artillery and mortars to drive out the ethnic Albanian population
in the border area.

   ``We cannot afford any longer to focus on hollow solutions of
rather symbolic character like border securing missions in Albania
or Macedonia, thus sealing off Kosovo from the outside,'' Ruehe
said. ``What we now have to focus on in order to support the
ongoing political process is to elaborate credible military options
aiming at the core of the problem: the extensive use of violence by
Serbian security or military forces against the Albanian civil
population in Kosovo.''

   Milosevic and his generals got a sample of what NATO warplanes
could do during the war in Bosnia in 1995, when an American-led
campaign against Bosnian Serb targets, coupled with a successful
Croatian offensive on the ground, forced the Serbs to the peace
table.

   Asked what would make the Serb leadership take this new
demonstration seriously, one senior NATO military official said,
``Milosevic will see the air demonstration not as a show but as
planning for a real operation.''

   The decision to speed up NATO's planning for real operations,
according to officials here, complements economic sanctions imposed
by the United States and Europe earlier this week and diplomatic
efforts on several fronts.

   Foreign ministers from leading NATO countries, Russia and Japan
plan to meet in London on Friday to press for renewed political
negotiations between Milosevic and the Albanian leadership in
Kosovo under Ibrahim Rugova. The aim of the talks would be to stop
the fighting and to restore or strengthen the autonomy the province
had before Milosevic revoked it 1989.

   Russian President Boris Yeltsin also invited Milosevic to Moscow
next week for talks the allies hope will impress on the Serb leader
the seriousness of the international threats and force him to back
down before they have to make good on their threat to use force.

   nn

   The NATO ministers on Thursday condemned violence by both the
authorities in Belgrade and what they called ``Kosovar Albanian
extremists,'' though diplomats say all western countries and Russia
agree that the main responsibility for the fighting lies with
Belgrade.

   ``We directed the NATO military authorities, subject to the
agreement of the governments of Albania and the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, to conduct an appropriate air exercise in
these two countries as quickly as possible, with the aim of
demonstrating NATO's capability to project power rapidly into the
region,'' the ministers said in a communique.

   They also called for ``a full range of options'' to stop the
fighting and stabilize the situation on the ground in Kosovo and
prevent the violence from drawing in Albania, Macedonia, and
possibly even Greece and Turkey if things get out of hand.

   ``The military planning is already under way,'' a NATO official
said even before Thursday's decisions. But, he added, ``No country
has yet committed itself to go through with these options.''

   Britain has been trying to get approval for a U.N. Security
Council resolution that would authorize NATO to use force if
necessary to restore peace to Kosovo. The United States and France
have expressed support for the measure.

   Russia, which could veto the resolution and bar NATO bombing or
ground operations in the region unless the United States and other
countries were willing to go ahead anyway, says it is trying to use
its influence to get Milosevic to call off attacks in Kosovo, which
is home to about two million ethnic Albanians.

   France, in particular, has attached great significance to
keeping Russia involved in the peacemaking effort, though the
French, along with the Germans, also pressed for Thursday's
decision to go ahead with detailed military planning for the
worst-case scenario should diplomacy fail, as it did so often in
Bosnia.

   Whether France would support NATO military action in Kosovo if
Russia used its veto authority was a question nobody could answer
here Thursday.

   The NATO-led peacekeeping mission in Bosnia has about 35,000
troops, with about 150 warplanes from 10 nations in the area at its
disposition that could be used in the exercise.

   Any NATO air operations in Kosovo or elsewhere in Serbia,
officials traveling with Cohen said, would be commanded by American
officers and would involve American planes that have been operating
out of Italy. U.S. planes from the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean
would also be involved if the carrier U.S.S. Eisenhower, which left
Norfolk, Va., earlier this week, gets there in time for the
exercise.

   On German radio Thursday, Gen. Klaus-Dieter Naumann of Germany,
chairman of NATO's military committee, provided an idea of what
NATO might undertake if military intervention becomes necessary.

   ``If we were assigned the task of enforcing an end to the
fighting _ this naturally applies to both sides, the Serbs and ...
the Kosovo Liberation Army as it has recently been called _ we
could ensure that with air strikes, as we did in Bosnia,'' the
general said.

   Diplomats from the United States, Russia, Britain, France,
Germany and Italy agreed Wednesday in Paris that Serb forces, not
the rebels in Kosovo, were primarily responsible for the violence,
which has killed an estimated 250 to 300 people.

   Some Western officials said they expected foreign ministers
meeting Friday in London to establish a deadline for a withdrawal
of Serbian military and special police forces from Kosovo, for a
cease-fire there, and for a resumption of talks with Rugova.

   Last month, Milosevic began talks with Rugova after U.S. special
envoy Richard Holbrooke agreed to recommend that the United States
and its European allies delay imposition of economic sanctions
while negotiations were under way.

   After the talks were suspended following the start of Serb
military operations in Kosovo, the allies last Monday froze Serb
assets and banned all investment in Yugoslavia. &QL;
',
			body: '


  
 (EDS: Subs to add new 6th, 7th grafs for comment from Albright. No
pickup.)  (ART ADV: Graphic is being sent to NYT graphics clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(th) 
 By CRAIG R. WHITNEY    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   BRUSSELS, Belgium _ NATO defense ministers commissioned
contingency plans Thursday for bombing Serb military targets in
Kosovo and said they would stage a huge military exercise at
Serbia's doorstep as early as next week to give Yugoslav President
Slobodan Milosevic a taste of the power that could be turned on him
if he persists in attacks on the province.

   The demonstration of force, with simulated bombing and strafing
raids and mock troop deployments, will take place over Albanian and
Macedonian territory just across the border from Kosovo, the
province where an estimated 60,000 to 85,000 people have been
displaced by fighting in recent weeks.

   Defense ministers meeting at NATO headquarters in Brussels on
Thursday also ordered NATO military authorities to draw up
contingency plans for the possibility that NATO troops might
eventually be sent into Kosovo on peacekeeping missions, or to seal
off the border with Albania to keep the fighting from spreading
there.

   Russia and France, among other countries, are insisting that the
United Nations would have to authorize any use of force against the
Serbs, and getting that authorization could take time or even be
impossible.

   But, addressing the issue of the need for a U.N. blessing, U.S.
Defense Secretary William Cohen said, ``The United States does not
feel it's imperative. It's desirable, not imperative.''

   In Washington, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said, ``It
is not our desire to use force. Our desire is to solve this
diplomatically.''

   She told reporters, ``We do believe that the military planning
that has now been directed should be a very strong message to
Milosevic that what he is doing is unacceptable to the
international community.''

   The allies said they ordered a multinational air show with as
many planes, helicopters and troops from as many nations as they
could muster on short notice, but military authorities provided few
details about the upcoming aerial sabre-rattling, which might take
place 35 miles from the Serbian border, well out of Milosevic's
earshot or sight. Whether the planes would use live ammunition or
bombs would depend on whether they could drop them on military
firing ranges in Albania or Macedonia, officers said.

   If Serb gunners fired at them during the demonstration, one NATO
expert said, allied planes could take measures in self-defense
under rules that have applied in Bosnia-Herzegovina and most of the
rest of what was Yugoslavia since the war there.

   NATO foreign ministers just two weeks ago had requested military
plans for ``preventive deployments'' of troops, not in Kosovo but
across the border in Albania and Macedonia.

   But German Defense Minister Volker Ruehe said Thursday that this
had been a waste of time and had not kept the Serbs from sealing
off the border between Kosovo and Albania and using tanks,
artillery and mortars to drive out the ethnic Albanian population
in the border area.

   ``We cannot afford any longer to focus on hollow solutions of
rather symbolic character like border securing missions in Albania
or Macedonia, thus sealing off Kosovo from the outside,'' Ruehe
said. ``What we now have to focus on in order to support the
ongoing political process is to elaborate credible military options
aiming at the core of the problem: the extensive use of violence by
Serbian security or military forces against the Albanian civil
population in Kosovo.''

   Milosevic and his generals got a sample of what NATO warplanes
could do during the war in Bosnia in 1995, when an American-led
campaign against Bosnian Serb targets, coupled with a successful
Croatian offensive on the ground, forced the Serbs to the peace
table.

   Asked what would make the Serb leadership take this new
demonstration seriously, one senior NATO military official said,
``Milosevic will see the air demonstration not as a show but as
planning for a real operation.''

   The decision to speed up NATO's planning for real operations,
according to officials here, complements economic sanctions imposed
by the United States and Europe earlier this week and diplomatic
efforts on several fronts.

   Foreign ministers from leading NATO countries, Russia and Japan
plan to meet in London on Friday to press for renewed political
negotiations between Milosevic and the Albanian leadership in
Kosovo under Ibrahim Rugova. The aim of the talks would be to stop
the fighting and to restore or strengthen the autonomy the province
had before Milosevic revoked it 1989.

   Russian President Boris Yeltsin also invited Milosevic to Moscow
next week for talks the allies hope will impress on the Serb leader
the seriousness of the international threats and force him to back
down before they have to make good on their threat to use force.

   nn

   The NATO ministers on Thursday condemned violence by both the
authorities in Belgrade and what they called ``Kosovar Albanian
extremists,'' though diplomats say all western countries and Russia
agree that the main responsibility for the fighting lies with
Belgrade.

   ``We directed the NATO military authorities, subject to the
agreement of the governments of Albania and the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, to conduct an appropriate air exercise in
these two countries as quickly as possible, with the aim of
demonstrating NATO's capability to project power rapidly into the
region,'' the ministers said in a communique.

   They also called for ``a full range of options'' to stop the
fighting and stabilize the situation on the ground in Kosovo and
prevent the violence from drawing in Albania, Macedonia, and
possibly even Greece and Turkey if things get out of hand.

   ``The military planning is already under way,'' a NATO official
said even before Thursday's decisions. But, he added, ``No country
has yet committed itself to go through with these options.''

   Britain has been trying to get approval for a U.N. Security
Council resolution that would authorize NATO to use force if
necessary to restore peace to Kosovo. The United States and France
have expressed support for the measure.

   Russia, which could veto the resolution and bar NATO bombing or
ground operations in the region unless the United States and other
countries were willing to go ahead anyway, says it is trying to use
its influence to get Milosevic to call off attacks in Kosovo, which
is home to about two million ethnic Albanians.

   France, in particular, has attached great significance to
keeping Russia involved in the peacemaking effort, though the
French, along with the Germans, also pressed for Thursday's
decision to go ahead with detailed military planning for the
worst-case scenario should diplomacy fail, as it did so often in
Bosnia.

   Whether France would support NATO military action in Kosovo if
Russia used its veto authority was a question nobody could answer
here Thursday.

   The NATO-led peacekeeping mission in Bosnia has about 35,000
troops, with about 150 warplanes from 10 nations in the area at its
disposition that could be used in the exercise.

   Any NATO air operations in Kosovo or elsewhere in Serbia,
officials traveling with Cohen said, would be commanded by American
officers and would involve American planes that have been operating
out of Italy. U.S. planes from the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean
would also be involved if the carrier U.S.S. Eisenhower, which left
Norfolk, Va., earlier this week, gets there in time for the
exercise.

   On German radio Thursday, Gen. Klaus-Dieter Naumann of Germany,
chairman of NATO's military committee, provided an idea of what
NATO might undertake if military intervention becomes necessary.

   ``If we were assigned the task of enforcing an end to the
fighting _ this naturally applies to both sides, the Serbs and ...
the Kosovo Liberation Army as it has recently been called _ we
could ensure that with air strikes, as we did in Bosnia,'' the
general said.

   Diplomats from the United States, Russia, Britain, France,
Germany and Italy agreed Wednesday in Paris that Serb forces, not
the rebels in Kosovo, were primarily responsible for the violence,
which has killed an estimated 250 to 300 people.

   Some Western officials said they expected foreign ministers
meeting Friday in London to establish a deadline for a withdrawal
of Serbian military and special police forces from Kosovo, for a
cease-fire there, and for a resumption of talks with Rugova.

   Last month, Milosevic began talks with Rugova after U.S. special
envoy Richard Holbrooke agreed to recommend that the United States
and its European allies delay imposition of economic sanctions
while negotiations were under way.

   After the talks were suspended following the start of Serb
military operations in Kosovo, the allies last Monday froze Serb
assets and banned all investment in Yugoslavia. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0402 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:35 ',
			header: '
A5582 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GRAPHICS-FILES &LR;      06-11 0132
',
			slug: ' BC-GRAPHICS-FILES ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here is a listing of the New York Times News Service Macintosh
graphics files that moved Thursday, 06/11/98. Included is the
corresponding story slug and the size. All graphics have been
posted on PressLink, NewsCom and the Wieck Photo Database.

   KOSOVO/Borders, NATO-U.N. Map.clr -- 2X4 3/8 -- KOSOVO-NATO

   KOSOVO/Djakovica Locator.pdf -- 1X4 -- KOSOVO-LANDMINES

   ETHIOPIA/Badame, Eritrea -- 1X2 1/2 -- ETHIOPIA-ERITREA

   APPLE'S/Savannah, Ga. Map -- 2X4 -- APPLE'S-SAVANNAH

   ASIA/Econ Crisis Stats. -- 3X10-- ASIA-GLOOM

   UNITED/Video, News Corp. Deal -- 3X3 7/8-- UNITED-TV-GUIDE

   LICENSING/Products, Sales -- 19pX3 1/2 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN

   ELECTRONIC/Market Seat Prices -- 1X5 5/8 --
ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE

   The N.Y. Times News Service
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here is a listing of the New York Times News Service Macintosh
graphics files that moved Thursday, 06/11/98. Included is the
corresponding story slug and the size. All graphics have been
posted on PressLink, NewsCom and the Wieck Photo Database.

   KOSOVO/Borders, NATO-U.N. Map.clr -- 2X4 3/8 -- KOSOVO-NATO

   KOSOVO/Djakovica Locator.pdf -- 1X4 -- KOSOVO-LANDMINES

   ETHIOPIA/Badame, Eritrea -- 1X2 1/2 -- ETHIOPIA-ERITREA

   APPLE'S/Savannah, Ga. Map -- 2X4 -- APPLE'S-SAVANNAH

   ASIA/Econ Crisis Stats. -- 3X10-- ASIA-GLOOM

   UNITED/Video, News Corp. Deal -- 3X3 7/8-- UNITED-TV-GUIDE

   LICENSING/Products, Sales -- 19pX3 1/2 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN

   ELECTRONIC/Market Seat Prices -- 1X5 5/8 --
ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE

   The N.Y. Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0403 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:36 ',
			header: '
A5583 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GRAPHICS-FILES &LR;      06-11 0132
',
			slug: ' BC-GRAPHICS-FILES ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here is a listing of the New York Times News Service Macintosh
graphics files that moved Thursday, 06/11/98. Included is the
corresponding story slug and the size. All graphics have been
posted on PressLink, NewsCom and the Wieck Photo Database.

   KOSOVO/Borders, NATO-U.N. Map.clr -- 2X4 3/8 -- KOSOVO-NATO

   KOSOVO/Djakovica Locator.pdf -- 1X4 -- KOSOVO-LANDMINES

   ETHIOPIA/Badame, Eritrea -- 1X2 1/2 -- ETHIOPIA-ERITREA

   APPLE'S/Savannah, Ga. Map -- 2X4 -- APPLE'S-SAVANNAH

   ASIA/Econ Crisis Stats. -- 3X10-- ASIA-GLOOM

   UNITED/Video, News Corp. Deal -- 3X3 7/8-- UNITED-TV-GUIDE

   LICENSING/Products, Sales -- 19pX3 1/2 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN

   ELECTRONIC/Market Seat Prices -- 1X5 5/8 --
ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE

   The N.Y. Times News Service
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here is a listing of the New York Times News Service Macintosh
graphics files that moved Thursday, 06/11/98. Included is the
corresponding story slug and the size. All graphics have been
posted on PressLink, NewsCom and the Wieck Photo Database.

   KOSOVO/Borders, NATO-U.N. Map.clr -- 2X4 3/8 -- KOSOVO-NATO

   KOSOVO/Djakovica Locator.pdf -- 1X4 -- KOSOVO-LANDMINES

   ETHIOPIA/Badame, Eritrea -- 1X2 1/2 -- ETHIOPIA-ERITREA

   APPLE'S/Savannah, Ga. Map -- 2X4 -- APPLE'S-SAVANNAH

   ASIA/Econ Crisis Stats. -- 3X10-- ASIA-GLOOM

   UNITED/Video, News Corp. Deal -- 3X3 7/8-- UNITED-TV-GUIDE

   LICENSING/Products, Sales -- 19pX3 1/2 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN

   ELECTRONIC/Market Seat Prices -- 1X5 5/8 --
ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE

   The N.Y. Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0404 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:36 ',
			header: '
A5584 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GRAPHICS-FILES &LR;      06-11 0132
',
			slug: ' BC-GRAPHICS-FILES ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Here is a listing of the New York Times News Service Macintosh
graphics files that moved Thursday, 06/11/98. Included is the
corresponding story slug and the size. All graphics have been
posted on PressLink, NewsCom and the Wieck Photo Database.

   KOSOVO/Borders, NATO-U.N. Map.clr -- 2X4 3/8 -- KOSOVO-NATO

   KOSOVO/Djakovica Locator.pdf -- 1X4 -- KOSOVO-LANDMINES

   ETHIOPIA/Badame, Eritrea -- 1X2 1/2 -- ETHIOPIA-ERITREA

   APPLE'S/Savannah, Ga. Map -- 2X4 -- APPLE'S-SAVANNAH

   ASIA/Econ Crisis Stats. -- 3X10-- ASIA-GLOOM

   UNITED/Video, News Corp. Deal -- 3X3 7/8-- UNITED-TV-GUIDE

   LICENSING/Products, Sales -- 19pX3 1/2 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN

   ELECTRONIC/Market Seat Prices -- 1X5 5/8 --
ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE

   The N.Y. Times News Service
',
			body: '

  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Here is a listing of the New York Times News Service Macintosh
graphics files that moved Thursday, 06/11/98. Included is the
corresponding story slug and the size. All graphics have been
posted on PressLink, NewsCom and the Wieck Photo Database.

   KOSOVO/Borders, NATO-U.N. Map.clr -- 2X4 3/8 -- KOSOVO-NATO

   KOSOVO/Djakovica Locator.pdf -- 1X4 -- KOSOVO-LANDMINES

   ETHIOPIA/Badame, Eritrea -- 1X2 1/2 -- ETHIOPIA-ERITREA

   APPLE'S/Savannah, Ga. Map -- 2X4 -- APPLE'S-SAVANNAH

   ASIA/Econ Crisis Stats. -- 3X10-- ASIA-GLOOM

   UNITED/Video, News Corp. Deal -- 3X3 7/8-- UNITED-TV-GUIDE

   LICENSING/Products, Sales -- 19pX3 1/2 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN

   ELECTRONIC/Market Seat Prices -- 1X5 5/8 --
ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE

   The N.Y. Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0405 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:37 ',
			header: '
A5585 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT     06-11 1810
',
			slug: ' BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   ATTENTION EDITORS: The following photos are part of tonight's
New York Times Photo Package, moving 6/11/98. Photo clients will
automatically receive these photos via AP's PhotoExpress or may
download them from either the Wieck Photo Database in Dallas at
972-392-0888 or from NYTPhotos on Newscom at 305-448-8411.
Non-clients can make individual purchases by calling 212-556-4204.

   EDS: Please note that a photo to go with REED-POLITICS moved
yesterday, June 10.

   (NYT22) TRURO, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- HOOD-BOY-BOS, 6-10 --
Joseph Souza wears his new spaceman-style hood at the Truro Central
School. The hood has made it possible for the 12-year-old to go
places he hasn't been able to go for the last six years since
having severe allergic reactions to chemicals. ``I would have worn
a clown suit with a fish jumping out of the hat if it meant I could
come back to school,'' he says. (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT21) DEDHAM, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- DONNA-OPTIMIST-BOS,
6-11 -- Donna Harris-Lewis, widow of the late Boston Celtic, Reggie
Lewis. Even though a half decade has elapsed since Lewis' death,
his widow has yet to erect a headstone in his memory, a sign, she
says, of how unsettled she still feels. ``You know why?'' she asks.
``It's very overwhelming, all that's taken place. He's not totally
rested, and neither am I.'' (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT20) SALT LAKE CITY -- June 11, 1998 -- BAPTISTS-DOBSON, 6-11
-- James Dobson, president and founder of Focus on the Family, an
independent evangelical organization, gives the keynote address
during the final session of the Southern Baptist Convention's
annual meeting in Salt Lake City on Thursday. ``Too many churches
have responded with apathy and accommodation to the evils of the
culture,'' he says. (Alan Youngblood/Ocala Star-Banner Photo)

   (NYT19) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- TOBACCO-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle meets with reporters Thursday
to discuss tobacco legislation. For the second time in a month, the
Senate rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT18) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-BOIES-PROFILE, 6-11 --
David Boies is the government's lawyer in its suit against
Microsoft. Tough case? ``Not really, to be honest,'' says Boies,
57. ``You're applying antitrust principles to software. It's
interesting, and it's important. But it's not that difficult.''
(Librado Romero/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT17) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-2, 6-11 --
A bulletin board suggests the cultural diversity at PS 290, the
Manhattan New School, where the 525 students, all told, can speak
in more than 30 languages. The school is also playing host to an
increasing number of children of Balkan immigrants. From classrooms
to the lunchroom, in drawings and in essays, these children recount
stories of death and destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip
Greenberg/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT16) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-1, 6-11 --
Leonela Rodoncic, her hands cupped by her ears, has told her
classmates at PS 290 in Manhattan of relatives killed in war.
Stories like Leonela's are increasingly finding their way into the
school, where the children of Balkan immigrants are one of the
fastest-growing groups. From classrooms to the lunchroom, in
drawings and in essays, these children recount stories of death and
destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip Greenberg/New York
Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT15) LINDEN, N.J. -- June 11, 1998 -- GM-STRIKE, 6-11 --
Union members being interviewed outside a GM plant in Linden.
Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike Thursday night at a General
Motors spark plug and speedometer factory in Flint, Mich., joining
fellow strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter
fight that could close all of the leading auto maker's North
American assembly plants within days. (Frank C. Dougherty/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT14) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN, 6-11
-- At the Licensing '98 Convention in the Jacob Javits Convention
Center, Brian Hakan, president of Hakan &AMP; Associates, brandishes a
T-shirt with the pint-sized Taco Bell dog, a poster of the
chihuahua behind him. Corporations have seized upon brand licensing
to promote their products beyond the usual showrooms or supermarket
shelves. (Marilynn K. Yee/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT13) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CLINTON, 6-11 --
President Clinton addresses a gathering at the National Geographic
Society in Washington on Thursday. ``Seeking to isolate China is
clearly unworkable,'' he says. ``Even our friends and allies around
the world do not support us in that. We would succeed instead in
isolating ourselves and our own policy.'' (Paul Hosefros/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT12) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Foreign Relations committee Chairman Sen. Jesse Helms, left,
and Sen. Joe Biden during a Thursday hearing on Chinese missile
proliferation. ``The administration has sought to shield China, and
the U.S. satellite vendors, from the effects of U.S. sanctions,''
says Helms. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT11) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-2-HNS, 6-11 -- A
man watches the rain fall from the doorway of a synogouge in
Havana. Before the 1959 revolution, an estimated 15,000 Jews made
their home in Cuba, but thousands fled when Castro took over. The
Jews most active in Havana today often are middle-aged people and
youths, newcomers to Jewish life. Their presence offers hope to the
few who remained faithful during those years when religious
practice was much harder to maintain. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston
Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT10) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-1-HNS, 6-11 --
Jewish men look over Torah scrolls in a small room at Havana's
Patronato, a community center. Before the 1959 revolution, an
estimated 15,000 Jews made their home in Cuba, but thousands fled
when Castro took over. Havana's three synagogues barely survived,
rarely able to attract more than a ``minyan,'' the 10 Jewish men
required to hold a service. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT9) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- RAY-EXHIBIT, 6-11 -- Charles
Ray's latest, biggest work, ``Unpainted Sculpture,'' part of a
retrospective at the Whitney Museum. The piece reproduces in gray
Fiberglas a wrecked Pontiac, evoking John Chamberlain's sculptures
of crushed cars and, less obviously, Anthony Caro's metal
abstractions. (James Estrin/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT8) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER, 6-11 --
The New York Shakespeare Festival presents Thornton Wilder's ``Skin
of Our Teeth,'' now in previews at the Delacourte Theater in
Central Park. Summer is the season when theatergoers get a chance
to breathe free. The warm weather provides drama in the big
outdoors, scorched by the sun or drenched in moonlight, simmered in
the growing humidity or cooled by the gentle whispers of the night.
(Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT7) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- THEATER-NOTES, 6-11 -- Simon
McBurney, whose Theatre de Complicite brought its critically
praised production of Ionesco's comedy ``The Chairs'' to Broadway
for a limited run that ends Saturday. ``Our production is not a
play, as we understand a play,'' he says of ``Street of
Crocodiles,'' which he will direct at Lincoln Center next month.
``And I would not call it drama, as we understand drama. But it is
definitely theater.'' (Jack Manning/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT6) BECKET, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- DANCE-JACOBS-PILLOW, 6-11 -- Ella Baff, the head of Jacob's
Pillow Dance Festival, during a Ballet Hispanico rehearsal. At the
Pillow, there will be programs by 19 companies and solo dancers in
the two theaters, with additional events on an informal outdoor
stage. Eleven dances and works-in-progress have been commissioned
by the Pillow, which won this year's prestigious Capezio Award for
service to the field. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT5) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
COLTRANE-JAZZ, 6-11 -- ``From the minute I picked up the horn,''
says Ravi Coltrane holding his saxaphone. ``I started to see that I
was going to get some breaks that other guys wouldn't get.'' After
appearing as a sideman on 29 records, Coltrane made a debut album,
``Moving Pictures'' (RCA/BMG), released last month. He will perform
tonight in one of the biggest events of the Texaco New York Jazz
Festival: a double bill with his group and that of his namesake,
the sitarist Ravi Shankar, at Town Hall in Manhattan. (Fred R.
Conrad/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT4) OAHU, Hawaii -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- TV-THORNBIRDS-CHAMBERLAIN, 6-11 -- Richard Chamberlain at a
friend's home on Oahu. Chamberlain, 63, who starred as Father Ralph
de Bricassart in ``The Thorn Birds,'' spends most of his time
painting. ``The business has just gotten too tough for me,'' he
says. (David Skull/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT3) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-2, 6-11 -- Jane Lapotaire and Paul Jesson in the
Royal Shakespeare Company production of ``Henry VIII'' at the
Majestic Theater at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. This is the most
fully realized of the three Shakespeare productions in the
company's five-play touring repertory, which, following its
Brooklyn engagement, is now at the Kennedy Center in Washington
through July 5. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT2) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-1, 6-11 -- Joanne Pearce of the Royal Shakespeare
Company as the Princess Imogen in Adrian Noble's production of
``Cymbeline.'' Adrian Noble, the RSC's artistic director, is
responsible for the production. Noble's production looks good, but
it slides too smoothly through the fanciful events of the play
without ever finding the appeal or truth of its characters.(Sara
Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT1) HOUSTON -- June 11, 1998 -- HABITAT-VOLUNTEERS-HNS, 6-11
-- Becky Neuhaus, right, shows a T-shirt to Teresa Geisheker at
Habitat for Humanity's warehouse in Houston. Ms. Neuhaus is
volunteer services chairwoman for the organization. She is busy
making goodie bags for the 6,000 volunteers who will work next week
building 100 low-income homes for families in Houston. It will be
the largest Habitat project ever conducted in the United
States.(Kirk Wagner/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   The New York Times News Service
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATTENTION EDITORS: The following photos are part of tonight's
New York Times Photo Package, moving 6/11/98. Photo clients will
automatically receive these photos via AP's PhotoExpress or may
download them from either the Wieck Photo Database in Dallas at
972-392-0888 or from NYTPhotos on Newscom at 305-448-8411.
Non-clients can make individual purchases by calling 212-556-4204.

   EDS: Please note that a photo to go with REED-POLITICS moved
yesterday, June 10.

   (NYT22) TRURO, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- HOOD-BOY-BOS, 6-10 --
Joseph Souza wears his new spaceman-style hood at the Truro Central
School. The hood has made it possible for the 12-year-old to go
places he hasn't been able to go for the last six years since
having severe allergic reactions to chemicals. ``I would have worn
a clown suit with a fish jumping out of the hat if it meant I could
come back to school,'' he says. (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT21) DEDHAM, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- DONNA-OPTIMIST-BOS,
6-11 -- Donna Harris-Lewis, widow of the late Boston Celtic, Reggie
Lewis. Even though a half decade has elapsed since Lewis' death,
his widow has yet to erect a headstone in his memory, a sign, she
says, of how unsettled she still feels. ``You know why?'' she asks.
``It's very overwhelming, all that's taken place. He's not totally
rested, and neither am I.'' (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT20) SALT LAKE CITY -- June 11, 1998 -- BAPTISTS-DOBSON, 6-11
-- James Dobson, president and founder of Focus on the Family, an
independent evangelical organization, gives the keynote address
during the final session of the Southern Baptist Convention's
annual meeting in Salt Lake City on Thursday. ``Too many churches
have responded with apathy and accommodation to the evils of the
culture,'' he says. (Alan Youngblood/Ocala Star-Banner Photo)

   (NYT19) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- TOBACCO-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle meets with reporters Thursday
to discuss tobacco legislation. For the second time in a month, the
Senate rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT18) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-BOIES-PROFILE, 6-11 --
David Boies is the government's lawyer in its suit against
Microsoft. Tough case? ``Not really, to be honest,'' says Boies,
57. ``You're applying antitrust principles to software. It's
interesting, and it's important. But it's not that difficult.''
(Librado Romero/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT17) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-2, 6-11 --
A bulletin board suggests the cultural diversity at PS 290, the
Manhattan New School, where the 525 students, all told, can speak
in more than 30 languages. The school is also playing host to an
increasing number of children of Balkan immigrants. From classrooms
to the lunchroom, in drawings and in essays, these children recount
stories of death and destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip
Greenberg/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT16) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-1, 6-11 --
Leonela Rodoncic, her hands cupped by her ears, has told her
classmates at PS 290 in Manhattan of relatives killed in war.
Stories like Leonela's are increasingly finding their way into the
school, where the children of Balkan immigrants are one of the
fastest-growing groups. From classrooms to the lunchroom, in
drawings and in essays, these children recount stories of death and
destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip Greenberg/New York
Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT15) LINDEN, N.J. -- June 11, 1998 -- GM-STRIKE, 6-11 --
Union members being interviewed outside a GM plant in Linden.
Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike Thursday night at a General
Motors spark plug and speedometer factory in Flint, Mich., joining
fellow strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter
fight that could close all of the leading auto maker's North
American assembly plants within days. (Frank C. Dougherty/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT14) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN, 6-11
-- At the Licensing '98 Convention in the Jacob Javits Convention
Center, Brian Hakan, president of Hakan &AMP; Associates, brandishes a
T-shirt with the pint-sized Taco Bell dog, a poster of the
chihuahua behind him. Corporations have seized upon brand licensing
to promote their products beyond the usual showrooms or supermarket
shelves. (Marilynn K. Yee/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT13) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CLINTON, 6-11 --
President Clinton addresses a gathering at the National Geographic
Society in Washington on Thursday. ``Seeking to isolate China is
clearly unworkable,'' he says. ``Even our friends and allies around
the world do not support us in that. We would succeed instead in
isolating ourselves and our own policy.'' (Paul Hosefros/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT12) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Foreign Relations committee Chairman Sen. Jesse Helms, left,
and Sen. Joe Biden during a Thursday hearing on Chinese missile
proliferation. ``The administration has sought to shield China, and
the U.S. satellite vendors, from the effects of U.S. sanctions,''
says Helms. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT11) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-2-HNS, 6-11 -- A
man watches the rain fall from the doorway of a synogouge in
Havana. Before the 1959 revolution, an estimated 15,000 Jews made
their home in Cuba, but thousands fled when Castro took over. The
Jews most active in Havana today often are middle-aged people and
youths, newcomers to Jewish life. Their presence offers hope to the
few who remained faithful during those years when religious
practice was much harder to maintain. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston
Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT10) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-1-HNS, 6-11 --
Jewish men look over Torah scrolls in a small room at Havana's
Patronato, a community center. Before the 1959 revolution, an
estimated 15,000 Jews made their home in Cuba, but thousands fled
when Castro took over. Havana's three synagogues barely survived,
rarely able to attract more than a ``minyan,'' the 10 Jewish men
required to hold a service. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT9) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- RAY-EXHIBIT, 6-11 -- Charles
Ray's latest, biggest work, ``Unpainted Sculpture,'' part of a
retrospective at the Whitney Museum. The piece reproduces in gray
Fiberglas a wrecked Pontiac, evoking John Chamberlain's sculptures
of crushed cars and, less obviously, Anthony Caro's metal
abstractions. (James Estrin/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT8) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER, 6-11 --
The New York Shakespeare Festival presents Thornton Wilder's ``Skin
of Our Teeth,'' now in previews at the Delacourte Theater in
Central Park. Summer is the season when theatergoers get a chance
to breathe free. The warm weather provides drama in the big
outdoors, scorched by the sun or drenched in moonlight, simmered in
the growing humidity or cooled by the gentle whispers of the night.
(Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT7) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- THEATER-NOTES, 6-11 -- Simon
McBurney, whose Theatre de Complicite brought its critically
praised production of Ionesco's comedy ``The Chairs'' to Broadway
for a limited run that ends Saturday. ``Our production is not a
play, as we understand a play,'' he says of ``Street of
Crocodiles,'' which he will direct at Lincoln Center next month.
``And I would not call it drama, as we understand drama. But it is
definitely theater.'' (Jack Manning/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT6) BECKET, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- DANCE-JACOBS-PILLOW, 6-11 -- Ella Baff, the head of Jacob's
Pillow Dance Festival, during a Ballet Hispanico rehearsal. At the
Pillow, there will be programs by 19 companies and solo dancers in
the two theaters, with additional events on an informal outdoor
stage. Eleven dances and works-in-progress have been commissioned
by the Pillow, which won this year's prestigious Capezio Award for
service to the field. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT5) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
COLTRANE-JAZZ, 6-11 -- ``From the minute I picked up the horn,''
says Ravi Coltrane holding his saxaphone. ``I started to see that I
was going to get some breaks that other guys wouldn't get.'' After
appearing as a sideman on 29 records, Coltrane made a debut album,
``Moving Pictures'' (RCA/BMG), released last month. He will perform
tonight in one of the biggest events of the Texaco New York Jazz
Festival: a double bill with his group and that of his namesake,
the sitarist Ravi Shankar, at Town Hall in Manhattan. (Fred R.
Conrad/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT4) OAHU, Hawaii -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- TV-THORNBIRDS-CHAMBERLAIN, 6-11 -- Richard Chamberlain at a
friend's home on Oahu. Chamberlain, 63, who starred as Father Ralph
de Bricassart in ``The Thorn Birds,'' spends most of his time
painting. ``The business has just gotten too tough for me,'' he
says. (David Skull/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT3) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-2, 6-11 -- Jane Lapotaire and Paul Jesson in the
Royal Shakespeare Company production of ``Henry VIII'' at the
Majestic Theater at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. This is the most
fully realized of the three Shakespeare productions in the
company's five-play touring repertory, which, following its
Brooklyn engagement, is now at the Kennedy Center in Washington
through July 5. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT2) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-1, 6-11 -- Joanne Pearce of the Royal Shakespeare
Company as the Princess Imogen in Adrian Noble's production of
``Cymbeline.'' Adrian Noble, the RSC's artistic director, is
responsible for the production. Noble's production looks good, but
it slides too smoothly through the fanciful events of the play
without ever finding the appeal or truth of its characters.(Sara
Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT1) HOUSTON -- June 11, 1998 -- HABITAT-VOLUNTEERS-HNS, 6-11
-- Becky Neuhaus, right, shows a T-shirt to Teresa Geisheker at
Habitat for Humanity's warehouse in Houston. Ms. Neuhaus is
volunteer services chairwoman for the organization. She is busy
making goodie bags for the 6,000 volunteers who will work next week
building 100 low-income homes for families in Houston. It will be
the largest Habitat project ever conducted in the United
States.(Kirk Wagner/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   The New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0406 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:38 ',
			header: '
A5586 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT     06-11 1810
',
			slug: ' BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   ATTENTION EDITORS: The following photos are part of tonight's
New York Times Photo Package, moving 6/11/98. Photo clients will
automatically receive these photos via AP's PhotoExpress or may
download them from either the Wieck Photo Database in Dallas at
972-392-0888 or from NYTPhotos on Newscom at 305-448-8411.
Non-clients can make individual purchases by calling 212-556-4204.

   EDS: Please note that a photo to go with REED-POLITICS moved
yesterday, June 10.

   (NYT22) TRURO, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- HOOD-BOY-BOS, 6-10 --
Joseph Souza wears his new spaceman-style hood at the Truro Central
School. The hood has made it possible for the 12-year-old to go
places he hasn't been able to go for the last six years since
having severe allergic reactions to chemicals. ``I would have worn
a clown suit with a fish jumping out of the hat if it meant I could
come back to school,'' he says. (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT21) DEDHAM, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- DONNA-OPTIMIST-BOS,
6-11 -- Donna Harris-Lewis, widow of the late Boston Celtic, Reggie
Lewis. Even though a half decade has elapsed since Lewis' death,
his widow has yet to erect a headstone in his memory, a sign, she
says, of how unsettled she still feels. ``You know why?'' she asks.
``It's very overwhelming, all that's taken place. He's not totally
rested, and neither am I.'' (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT20) SALT LAKE CITY -- June 11, 1998 -- BAPTISTS-DOBSON, 6-11
-- James Dobson, president and founder of Focus on the Family, an
independent evangelical organization, gives the keynote address
during the final session of the Southern Baptist Convention's
annual meeting in Salt Lake City on Thursday. ``Too many churches
have responded with apathy and accommodation to the evils of the
culture,'' he says. (Alan Youngblood/Ocala Star-Banner Photo)

   (NYT19) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- TOBACCO-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle meets with reporters Thursday
to discuss tobacco legislation. For the second time in a month, the
Senate rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT18) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-BOIES-PROFILE, 6-11 --
David Boies is the government's lawyer in its suit against
Microsoft. Tough case? ``Not really, to be honest,'' says Boies,
57. ``You're applying antitrust principles to software. It's
interesting, and it's important. But it's not that difficult.''
(Librado Romero/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT17) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-2, 6-11 --
A bulletin board suggests the cultural diversity at PS 290, the
Manhattan New School, where the 525 students, all told, can speak
in more than 30 languages. The school is also playing host to an
increasing number of children of Balkan immigrants. From classrooms
to the lunchroom, in drawings and in essays, these children recount
stories of death and destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip
Greenberg/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT16) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-1, 6-11 --
Leonela Rodoncic, her hands cupped by her ears, has told her
classmates at PS 290 in Manhattan of relatives killed in war.
Stories like Leonela's are increasingly finding their way into the
school, where the children of Balkan immigrants are one of the
fastest-growing groups. From classrooms to the lunchroom, in
drawings and in essays, these children recount stories of death and
destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip Greenberg/New York
Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT15) LINDEN, N.J. -- June 11, 1998 -- GM-STRIKE, 6-11 --
Union members being interviewed outside a GM plant in Linden.
Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike Thursday night at a General
Motors spark plug and speedometer factory in Flint, Mich., joining
fellow strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter
fight that could close all of the leading auto maker's North
American assembly plants within days. (Frank C. Dougherty/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT14) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN, 6-11
-- At the Licensing '98 Convention in the Jacob Javits Convention
Center, Brian Hakan, president of Hakan &AMP; Associates, brandishes a
T-shirt with the pint-sized Taco Bell dog, a poster of the
chihuahua behind him. Corporations have seized upon brand licensing
to promote their products beyond the usual showrooms or supermarket
shelves. (Marilynn K. Yee/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT13) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CLINTON, 6-11 --
President Clinton addresses a gathering at the National Geographic
Society in Washington on Thursday. ``Seeking to isolate China is
clearly unworkable,'' he says. ``Even our friends and allies around
the world do not support us in that. We would succeed instead in
isolating ourselves and our own policy.'' (Paul Hosefros/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT12) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Foreign Relations committee Chairman Sen. Jesse Helms, left,
and Sen. Joe Biden during a Thursday hearing on Chinese missile
proliferation. ``The administration has sought to shield China, and
the U.S. satellite vendors, from the effects of U.S. sanctions,''
says Helms. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT11) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-2-HNS, 6-11 -- A
man watches the rain fall from the doorway of a synogouge in
Havana. Before the 1959 revolution, an estimated 15,000 Jews made
their home in Cuba, but thousands fled when Castro took over. The
Jews most active in Havana today often are middle-aged people and
youths, newcomers to Jewish life. Their presence offers hope to the
few who remained faithful during those years when religious
practice was much harder to maintain. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston
Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT10) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-1-HNS, 6-11 --
Jewish men look over Torah scrolls in a small room at Havana's
Patronato, a community center. Before the 1959 revolution, an
estimated 15,000 Jews made their home in Cuba, but thousands fled
when Castro took over. Havana's three synagogues barely survived,
rarely able to attract more than a ``minyan,'' the 10 Jewish men
required to hold a service. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT9) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- RAY-EXHIBIT, 6-11 -- Charles
Ray's latest, biggest work, ``Unpainted Sculpture,'' part of a
retrospective at the Whitney Museum. The piece reproduces in gray
Fiberglas a wrecked Pontiac, evoking John Chamberlain's sculptures
of crushed cars and, less obviously, Anthony Caro's metal
abstractions. (James Estrin/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT8) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER, 6-11 --
The New York Shakespeare Festival presents Thornton Wilder's ``Skin
of Our Teeth,'' now in previews at the Delacourte Theater in
Central Park. Summer is the season when theatergoers get a chance
to breathe free. The warm weather provides drama in the big
outdoors, scorched by the sun or drenched in moonlight, simmered in
the growing humidity or cooled by the gentle whispers of the night.
(Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT7) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- THEATER-NOTES, 6-11 -- Simon
McBurney, whose Theatre de Complicite brought its critically
praised production of Ionesco's comedy ``The Chairs'' to Broadway
for a limited run that ends Saturday. ``Our production is not a
play, as we understand a play,'' he says of ``Street of
Crocodiles,'' which he will direct at Lincoln Center next month.
``And I would not call it drama, as we understand drama. But it is
definitely theater.'' (Jack Manning/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT6) BECKET, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- DANCE-JACOBS-PILLOW, 6-11 -- Ella Baff, the head of Jacob's
Pillow Dance Festival, during a Ballet Hispanico rehearsal. At the
Pillow, there will be programs by 19 companies and solo dancers in
the two theaters, with additional events on an informal outdoor
stage. Eleven dances and works-in-progress have been commissioned
by the Pillow, which won this year's prestigious Capezio Award for
service to the field. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT5) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
COLTRANE-JAZZ, 6-11 -- ``From the minute I picked up the horn,''
says Ravi Coltrane holding his saxaphone. ``I started to see that I
was going to get some breaks that other guys wouldn't get.'' After
appearing as a sideman on 29 records, Coltrane made a debut album,
``Moving Pictures'' (RCA/BMG), released last month. He will perform
tonight in one of the biggest events of the Texaco New York Jazz
Festival: a double bill with his group and that of his namesake,
the sitarist Ravi Shankar, at Town Hall in Manhattan. (Fred R.
Conrad/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT4) OAHU, Hawaii -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- TV-THORNBIRDS-CHAMBERLAIN, 6-11 -- Richard Chamberlain at a
friend's home on Oahu. Chamberlain, 63, who starred as Father Ralph
de Bricassart in ``The Thorn Birds,'' spends most of his time
painting. ``The business has just gotten too tough for me,'' he
says. (David Skull/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT3) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-2, 6-11 -- Jane Lapotaire and Paul Jesson in the
Royal Shakespeare Company production of ``Henry VIII'' at the
Majestic Theater at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. This is the most
fully realized of the three Shakespeare productions in the
company's five-play touring repertory, which, following its
Brooklyn engagement, is now at the Kennedy Center in Washington
through July 5. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT2) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-1, 6-11 -- Joanne Pearce of the Royal Shakespeare
Company as the Princess Imogen in Adrian Noble's production of
``Cymbeline.'' Adrian Noble, the RSC's artistic director, is
responsible for the production. Noble's production looks good, but
it slides too smoothly through the fanciful events of the play
without ever finding the appeal or truth of its characters.(Sara
Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT1) HOUSTON -- June 11, 1998 -- HABITAT-VOLUNTEERS-HNS, 6-11
-- Becky Neuhaus, right, shows a T-shirt to Teresa Geisheker at
Habitat for Humanity's warehouse in Houston. Ms. Neuhaus is
volunteer services chairwoman for the organization. She is busy
making goodie bags for the 6,000 volunteers who will work next week
building 100 low-income homes for families in Houston. It will be
the largest Habitat project ever conducted in the United
States.(Kirk Wagner/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   The New York Times News Service
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATTENTION EDITORS: The following photos are part of tonight's
New York Times Photo Package, moving 6/11/98. Photo clients will
automatically receive these photos via AP's PhotoExpress or may
download them from either the Wieck Photo Database in Dallas at
972-392-0888 or from NYTPhotos on Newscom at 305-448-8411.
Non-clients can make individual purchases by calling 212-556-4204.

   EDS: Please note that a photo to go with REED-POLITICS moved
yesterday, June 10.

   (NYT22) TRURO, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- HOOD-BOY-BOS, 6-10 --
Joseph Souza wears his new spaceman-style hood at the Truro Central
School. The hood has made it possible for the 12-year-old to go
places he hasn't been able to go for the last six years since
having severe allergic reactions to chemicals. ``I would have worn
a clown suit with a fish jumping out of the hat if it meant I could
come back to school,'' he says. (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT21) DEDHAM, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- DONNA-OPTIMIST-BOS,
6-11 -- Donna Harris-Lewis, widow of the late Boston Celtic, Reggie
Lewis. Even though a half decade has elapsed since Lewis' death,
his widow has yet to erect a headstone in his memory, a sign, she
says, of how unsettled she still feels. ``You know why?'' she asks.
``It's very overwhelming, all that's taken place. He's not totally
rested, and neither am I.'' (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT20) SALT LAKE CITY -- June 11, 1998 -- BAPTISTS-DOBSON, 6-11
-- James Dobson, president and founder of Focus on the Family, an
independent evangelical organization, gives the keynote address
during the final session of the Southern Baptist Convention's
annual meeting in Salt Lake City on Thursday. ``Too many churches
have responded with apathy and accommodation to the evils of the
culture,'' he says. (Alan Youngblood/Ocala Star-Banner Photo)

   (NYT19) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- TOBACCO-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle meets with reporters Thursday
to discuss tobacco legislation. For the second time in a month, the
Senate rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT18) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-BOIES-PROFILE, 6-11 --
David Boies is the government's lawyer in its suit against
Microsoft. Tough case? ``Not really, to be honest,'' says Boies,
57. ``You're applying antitrust principles to software. It's
interesting, and it's important. But it's not that difficult.''
(Librado Romero/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT17) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-2, 6-11 --
A bulletin board suggests the cultural diversity at PS 290, the
Manhattan New School, where the 525 students, all told, can speak
in more than 30 languages. The school is also playing host to an
increasing number of children of Balkan immigrants. From classrooms
to the lunchroom, in drawings and in essays, these children recount
stories of death and destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip
Greenberg/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT16) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-1, 6-11 --
Leonela Rodoncic, her hands cupped by her ears, has told her
classmates at PS 290 in Manhattan of relatives killed in war.
Stories like Leonela's are increasingly finding their way into the
school, where the children of Balkan immigrants are one of the
fastest-growing groups. From classrooms to the lunchroom, in
drawings and in essays, these children recount stories of death and
destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip Greenberg/New York
Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT15) LINDEN, N.J. -- June 11, 1998 -- GM-STRIKE, 6-11 --
Union members being interviewed outside a GM plant in Linden.
Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike Thursday night at a General
Motors spark plug and speedometer factory in Flint, Mich., joining
fellow strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter
fight that could close all of the leading auto maker's North
American assembly plants within days. (Frank C. Dougherty/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT14) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN, 6-11
-- At the Licensing '98 Convention in the Jacob Javits Convention
Center, Brian Hakan, president of Hakan &AMP; Associates, brandishes a
T-shirt with the pint-sized Taco Bell dog, a poster of the
chihuahua behind him. Corporations have seized upon brand licensing
to promote their products beyond the usual showrooms or supermarket
shelves. (Marilynn K. Yee/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT13) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CLINTON, 6-11 --
President Clinton addresses a gathering at the National Geographic
Society in Washington on Thursday. ``Seeking to isolate China is
clearly unworkable,'' he says. ``Even our friends and allies around
the world do not support us in that. We would succeed instead in
isolating ourselves and our own policy.'' (Paul Hosefros/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT12) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Foreign Relations committee Chairman Sen. Jesse Helms, left,
and Sen. Joe Biden during a Thursday hearing on Chinese missile
proliferation. ``The administration has sought to shield China, and
the U.S. satellite vendors, from the effects of U.S. sanctions,''
says Helms. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT11) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-2-HNS, 6-11 -- A
man watches the rain fall from the doorway of a synogouge in
Havana. Before the 1959 revolution, an estimated 15,000 Jews made
their home in Cuba, but thousands fled when Castro took over. The
Jews most active in Havana today often are middle-aged people and
youths, newcomers to Jewish life. Their presence offers hope to the
few who remained faithful during those years when religious
practice was much harder to maintain. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston
Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT10) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-1-HNS, 6-11 --
Jewish men look over Torah scrolls in a small room at Havana's
Patronato, a community center. Before the 1959 revolution, an
estimated 15,000 Jews made their home in Cuba, but thousands fled
when Castro took over. Havana's three synagogues barely survived,
rarely able to attract more than a ``minyan,'' the 10 Jewish men
required to hold a service. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT9) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- RAY-EXHIBIT, 6-11 -- Charles
Ray's latest, biggest work, ``Unpainted Sculpture,'' part of a
retrospective at the Whitney Museum. The piece reproduces in gray
Fiberglas a wrecked Pontiac, evoking John Chamberlain's sculptures
of crushed cars and, less obviously, Anthony Caro's metal
abstractions. (James Estrin/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT8) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER, 6-11 --
The New York Shakespeare Festival presents Thornton Wilder's ``Skin
of Our Teeth,'' now in previews at the Delacourte Theater in
Central Park. Summer is the season when theatergoers get a chance
to breathe free. The warm weather provides drama in the big
outdoors, scorched by the sun or drenched in moonlight, simmered in
the growing humidity or cooled by the gentle whispers of the night.
(Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT7) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- THEATER-NOTES, 6-11 -- Simon
McBurney, whose Theatre de Complicite brought its critically
praised production of Ionesco's comedy ``The Chairs'' to Broadway
for a limited run that ends Saturday. ``Our production is not a
play, as we understand a play,'' he says of ``Street of
Crocodiles,'' which he will direct at Lincoln Center next month.
``And I would not call it drama, as we understand drama. But it is
definitely theater.'' (Jack Manning/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT6) BECKET, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- DANCE-JACOBS-PILLOW, 6-11 -- Ella Baff, the head of Jacob's
Pillow Dance Festival, during a Ballet Hispanico rehearsal. At the
Pillow, there will be programs by 19 companies and solo dancers in
the two theaters, with additional events on an informal outdoor
stage. Eleven dances and works-in-progress have been commissioned
by the Pillow, which won this year's prestigious Capezio Award for
service to the field. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT5) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
COLTRANE-JAZZ, 6-11 -- ``From the minute I picked up the horn,''
says Ravi Coltrane holding his saxaphone. ``I started to see that I
was going to get some breaks that other guys wouldn't get.'' After
appearing as a sideman on 29 records, Coltrane made a debut album,
``Moving Pictures'' (RCA/BMG), released last month. He will perform
tonight in one of the biggest events of the Texaco New York Jazz
Festival: a double bill with his group and that of his namesake,
the sitarist Ravi Shankar, at Town Hall in Manhattan. (Fred R.
Conrad/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT4) OAHU, Hawaii -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- TV-THORNBIRDS-CHAMBERLAIN, 6-11 -- Richard Chamberlain at a
friend's home on Oahu. Chamberlain, 63, who starred as Father Ralph
de Bricassart in ``The Thorn Birds,'' spends most of his time
painting. ``The business has just gotten too tough for me,'' he
says. (David Skull/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT3) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-2, 6-11 -- Jane Lapotaire and Paul Jesson in the
Royal Shakespeare Company production of ``Henry VIII'' at the
Majestic Theater at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. This is the most
fully realized of the three Shakespeare productions in the
company's five-play touring repertory, which, following its
Brooklyn engagement, is now at the Kennedy Center in Washington
through July 5. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT2) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-1, 6-11 -- Joanne Pearce of the Royal Shakespeare
Company as the Princess Imogen in Adrian Noble's production of
``Cymbeline.'' Adrian Noble, the RSC's artistic director, is
responsible for the production. Noble's production looks good, but
it slides too smoothly through the fanciful events of the play
without ever finding the appeal or truth of its characters.(Sara
Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT1) HOUSTON -- June 11, 1998 -- HABITAT-VOLUNTEERS-HNS, 6-11
-- Becky Neuhaus, right, shows a T-shirt to Teresa Geisheker at
Habitat for Humanity's warehouse in Houston. Ms. Neuhaus is
volunteer services chairwoman for the organization. She is busy
making goodie bags for the 6,000 volunteers who will work next week
building 100 low-income homes for families in Houston. It will be
the largest Habitat project ever conducted in the United
States.(Kirk Wagner/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   The New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0407 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:40 ',
			header: '
A5591 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u l &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT     06-11 1810
',
			slug: ' BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   ATTENTION EDITORS: The following photos are part of tonight's
New York Times Photo Package, moving 6/11/98. Photo clients will
automatically receive these photos via AP's PhotoExpress or may
download them from either the Wieck Photo Database in Dallas at
972-392-0888 or from NYTPhotos on Newscom at 305-448-8411.
Non-clients can make individual purchases by calling 212-556-4204.

   EDS: Please note that a photo to go with REED-POLITICS moved
yesterday, June 10.

   (NYT22) TRURO, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- HOOD-BOY-BOS, 6-10 --
Joseph Souza wears his new spaceman-style hood at the Truro Central
School. The hood has made it possible for the 12-year-old to go
places he hasn't been able to go for the last six years since
having severe allergic reactions to chemicals. ``I would have worn
a clown suit with a fish jumping out of the hat if it meant I could
come back to school,'' he says. (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT21) DEDHAM, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- DONNA-OPTIMIST-BOS,
6-11 -- Donna Harris-Lewis, widow of the late Boston Celtic, Reggie
Lewis. Even though a half decade has elapsed since Lewis' death,
his widow has yet to erect a headstone in his memory, a sign, she
says, of how unsettled she still feels. ``You know why?'' she asks.
``It's very overwhelming, all that's taken place. He's not totally
rested, and neither am I.'' (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT20) SALT LAKE CITY -- June 11, 1998 -- BAPTISTS-DOBSON, 6-11
-- James Dobson, president and founder of Focus on the Family, an
independent evangelical organization, gives the keynote address
during the final session of the Southern Baptist Convention's
annual meeting in Salt Lake City on Thursday. ``Too many churches
have responded with apathy and accommodation to the evils of the
culture,'' he says. (Alan Youngblood/Ocala Star-Banner Photo)

   (NYT19) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- TOBACCO-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle meets with reporters Thursday
to discuss tobacco legislation. For the second time in a month, the
Senate rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT18) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-BOIES-PROFILE, 6-11 --
David Boies is the government's lawyer in its suit against
Microsoft. Tough case? ``Not really, to be honest,'' says Boies,
57. ``You're applying antitrust principles to software. It's
interesting, and it's important. But it's not that difficult.''
(Librado Romero/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT17) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-2, 6-11 --
A bulletin board suggests the cultural diversity at PS 290, the
Manhattan New School, where the 525 students, all told, can speak
in more than 30 languages. The school is also playing host to an
increasing number of children of Balkan immigrants. From classrooms
to the lunchroom, in drawings and in essays, these children recount
stories of death and destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip
Greenberg/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT16) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-1, 6-11 --
Leonela Rodoncic, her hands cupped by her ears, has told her
classmates at PS 290 in Manhattan of relatives killed in war.
Stories like Leonela's are increasngly finding their way into the
school, where the children of Balkan immigrants are one of the
fastest-growing groups. From classrooms to the lunchroom, in
drawings and in essays, these children recount stories of death and
destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip Greenberg/New York
Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT15) LINDEN, N.J. -- June 11, 1998 -- GM-STRIKE, 6-11 --
Union members being interviewed outside a GM plant in Linden.
Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike Thursday night at a General
Motors spark plug and speedometer factory in Flint, Mich., joining
fellow strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter
fight that could close all of the leading auto maker's North
American assembly plants within days. (Frank C. Dougherty/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT14) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN, 6-11
-- At the Licensing '98 Convention in the Jacob Javits Convention
Center, Brian Hakan, president of Hakan &AMP; Associates, brandishes a
T-shirt with the pint-sized Taco Bell dog, a poster of the
chihuahua behind him. Corporations have seized upon brand licensing
to promote their products beyond the usual showrooms or supermarket
shelves. (Marilynn K. Yee/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT13) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CLINTON, 6-11 --
President Clinton addresses a gathering at the National Geographic
Society in Washington on Thursday. ``Seeking to isolate China is
clearly unworkable,'' he says. ``Even our friends and allies around
the world do not support us in that. We would succeed instead in
isolating ourselves and our own policy.'' (Paul Hosefros/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT12) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Foreign Relations committee Chairman Sen. Jesse Helms, left,
and Sen. Joe Biden during a Thursday hearing on Chinese missile
proliferation. ``The administration has sought to shield China, and
the U.S. satellite vendors, from the effects of U.S. sanctions,''
says Helms. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT11) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-2-HNS, 6-11 -- A
man watches the rain fall from the doorway of a synogouge in
Havana. Before the 1959 revolution, an estimated 15,000 Jews made
their home in Cuba, but thousands fled when Castro took over. The
Jews most active in Havana today often are middle-aged people and
youths, newcomers to Jewish life. Their presence offers hope to the
few who remained faithful during those years when religious
practice was much harder to maintain. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston
Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT10) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-1-HNS, 6-11 --
Jewish men look over Torah scrolls in a small room at Havana's
Patronato, a community center. Before the 1959 revolution, an
estimated 15,000 Jews made their home in Cuba, but thousands fled
when Castro took over. Havana's three synagogues barely survived,
rarely able to attract more than a ``minyan,'' the 10 Jewish men
required to hold a service. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT9) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- RAY-EXHIBIT, 6-11 -- Charles
Ray's latest, biggest work, ``Unpainted Sculpture,'' part of a
retrospective at the Whitney Museum. The piece reproduces in gray
Fiberglas a wrecked Pontiac, evoking John Chamberlain's sculptures
of crushed cars and, less obviously, Anthony Caro's metal
abstractions. (James Estrin/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT8) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER, 6-11 --
The New York Shakespeare Festival presents Thornton Wilder's ``Skin
of Our Teeth,'' now in previews at the Delacourte Theater in
Central Park. Summer is the season when theatergoers get a chance
to breathe free. The warm weather provides drama in the big
outdoors, scorched by the sun or drenched in moonlight, simmered in
the growing humidity or cooled by the gentle whispers of the night.
(Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT7) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- THEATER-NOTES, 6-11 -- Simon
McBurney, whose Theatre de Complicite brought its critically
praised production of Ionesco's comedy ``The Chairs'' to Broadway
for a limited run that ends Saturday. ``Our production is not a
play, as we understand a play,'' he says of ``Street of
Crocodiles,'' which he will direct at Lincoln Center next month.
``And I would not call it drama, as we understand drama. But it is
definitely theater.'' (Jack Manning/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT6) BECKET, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- DANCE-JACOBS-PILLOW, 6-11 -- Ella Baff, the head of Jacob's
Pillow Dance Festival, during a Ballet Hispanico rehearsal. At the
Pillow, there will be programs by 19 companies and solo dancers in
the two theaters, with additional events on an informal outdoor
stage. Eleven dances and works-in-progress have been commissioned
by the Pillow, which won this year's prestigious Capezio Award for
service to the field. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT5) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
COLTRANE-JAZZ, 6-11 -- ``From the minute I picked up the horn,''
says Ravi Coltrane holding his saxaphone. ``I started to see that I
was going to get some breaks that other guys wouldn't get.'' After
appearing as a sideman on 29 records, Coltrane made a debut album,
``Moving Pictures'' (RCA/BMG), released last month. He will perform
tonight in one of the biggest events of the Texaco New York Jazz
Festival: a double bill with his group and that of his namesake,
the sitarist Ravi Shankar, at Town Hall in Manhattan. (Fred R.
Conrad/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT4) OAHU, Hawaii -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- TV-THORNBIRDS-CHAMBERLAIN, 6-11 -- Richard Chamberlain at a
friend's home on Oahu. Chamberlain, 63, who starred as Father Ralph
de Bricassart in ``The Thorn Birds,'' spends most of his time
painting. ``The business has just gotten too tough for me,'' he
says. (David Skull/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT3) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-2, 6-11 -- Jane Lapotaire and Paul Jesson in the
Royal Shakespeare Company production of ``Henry VIII'' at the
Majestic Theater at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. This is the most
fully realized of the three Shakespeare productions in the
company's five-play touring repertory, which, following its
Brooklyn engagement, is now at the Kennedy Center in Washington
through July 5. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT2) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-1, 6-11 -- Joanne Pearce of the Royal Shakespeare
Company as the Princess Imogen in Adrian Noble's production of
``Cymbeline.'' Adrian Noble, the RSC's artistic director, is
responsible for the production. Noble's production looks good, but
it slides too smoothly through the fanciful events of the play
without ever finding the appeal or truth of its characters.(Sara
Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT1) HOUSTON -- June 11, 1998 -- HABITAT-VOLUNTEERS-HNS, 6-11
-- Becky Neuhaus, right, shows a T-shirt to Teresa Geisheker at
Habitat for Humanity's warehouse in Houston. Ms. Neuhaus is
volunteer services chairwoman for the organization. She is busy
making goodie bags for the 6,000 volunteers who will work next week
building 100 low-income homes for families in Houston. It will be
the largest Habitat project ever conducted in the United
States.(Kirk Wagner/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   The New York Times News Service
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATTENTION EDITORS: The following photos are part of tonight's
New York Times Photo Package, moving 6/11/98. Photo clients will
automatically receive these photos via AP's PhotoExpress or may
download them from either the Wieck Photo Database in Dallas at
972-392-0888 or from NYTPhotos on Newscom at 305-448-8411.
Non-clients can make individual purchases by calling 212-556-4204.

   EDS: Please note that a photo to go with REED-POLITICS moved
yesterday, June 10.

   (NYT22) TRURO, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- HOOD-BOY-BOS, 6-10 --
Joseph Souza wears his new spaceman-style hood at the Truro Central
School. The hood has made it possible for the 12-year-old to go
places he hasn't been able to go for the last six years since
having severe allergic reactions to chemicals. ``I would have worn
a clown suit with a fish jumping out of the hat if it meant I could
come back to school,'' he says. (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT21) DEDHAM, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- DONNA-OPTIMIST-BOS,
6-11 -- Donna Harris-Lewis, widow of the late Boston Celtic, Reggie
Lewis. Even though a half decade has elapsed since Lewis' death,
his widow has yet to erect a headstone in his memory, a sign, she
says, of how unsettled she still feels. ``You know why?'' she asks.
``It's very overwhelming, all that's taken place. He's not totally
rested, and neither am I.'' (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT20) SALT LAKE CITY -- June 11, 1998 -- BAPTISTS-DOBSON, 6-11
-- James Dobson, president and founder of Focus on the Family, an
independent evangelical organization, gives the keynote address
during the final session of the Southern Baptist Convention's
annual meeting in Salt Lake City on Thursday. ``Too many churches
have responded with apathy and accommodation to the evils of the
culture,'' he says. (Alan Youngblood/Ocala Star-Banner Photo)

   (NYT19) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- TOBACCO-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle meets with reporters Thursday
to discuss tobacco legislation. For the second time in a month, the
Senate rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT18) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-BOIES-PROFILE, 6-11 --
David Boies is the government's lawyer in its suit against
Microsoft. Tough case? ``Not really, to be honest,'' says Boies,
57. ``You're applying antitrust principles to software. It's
interesting, and it's important. But it's not that difficult.''
(Librado Romero/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT17) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-2, 6-11 --
A bulletin board suggests the cultural diversity at PS 290, the
Manhattan New School, where the 525 students, all told, can speak
in more than 30 languages. The school is also playing host to an
increasing number of children of Balkan immigrants. From classrooms
to the lunchroom, in drawings and in essays, these children recount
stories of death and destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip
Greenberg/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT16) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-1, 6-11 --
Leonela Rodoncic, her hands cupped by her ears, has told her
classmates at PS 290 in Manhattan of relatives killed in war.
Stories like Leonela's are increasngly finding their way into the
school, where the children of Balkan immigrants are one of the
fastest-growing groups. From classrooms to the lunchroom, in
drawings and in essays, these children recount stories of death and
destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip Greenberg/New York
Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT15) LINDEN, N.J. -- June 11, 1998 -- GM-STRIKE, 6-11 --
Union members being interviewed outside a GM plant in Linden.
Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike Thursday night at a General
Motors spark plug and speedometer factory in Flint, Mich., joining
fellow strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter
fight that could close all of the leading auto maker's North
American assembly plants within days. (Frank C. Dougherty/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT14) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN, 6-11
-- At the Licensing '98 Convention in the Jacob Javits Convention
Center, Brian Hakan, president of Hakan &AMP; Associates, brandishes a
T-shirt with the pint-sized Taco Bell dog, a poster of the
chihuahua behind him. Corporations have seized upon brand licensing
to promote their products beyond the usual showrooms or supermarket
shelves. (Marilynn K. Yee/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT13) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CLINTON, 6-11 --
President Clinton addresses a gathering at the National Geographic
Society in Washington on Thursday. ``Seeking to isolate China is
clearly unworkable,'' he says. ``Even our friends and allies around
the world do not support us in that. We would succeed instead in
isolating ourselves and our own policy.'' (Paul Hosefros/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT12) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Foreign Relations committee Chairman Sen. Jesse Helms, left,
and Sen. Joe Biden during a Thursday hearing on Chinese missile
proliferation. ``The administration has sought to shield China, and
the U.S. satellite vendors, from the effects of U.S. sanctions,''
says Helms. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT11) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-2-HNS, 6-11 -- A
man watches the rain fall from the doorway of a synogouge in
Havana. Before the 1959 revolution, an estimated 15,000 Jews made
their home in Cuba, but thousands fled when Castro took over. The
Jews most active in Havana today often are middle-aged people and
youths, newcomers to Jewish life. Their presence offers hope to the
few who remained faithful during those years when religious
practice was much harder to maintain. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston
Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT10) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-1-HNS, 6-11 --
Jewish men look over Torah scrolls in a small room at Havana's
Patronato, a community center. Before the 1959 revolution, an
estimated 15,000 Jews made their home in Cuba, but thousands fled
when Castro took over. Havana's three synagogues barely survived,
rarely able to attract more than a ``minyan,'' the 10 Jewish men
required to hold a service. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT9) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- RAY-EXHIBIT, 6-11 -- Charles
Ray's latest, biggest work, ``Unpainted Sculpture,'' part of a
retrospective at the Whitney Museum. The piece reproduces in gray
Fiberglas a wrecked Pontiac, evoking John Chamberlain's sculptures
of crushed cars and, less obviously, Anthony Caro's metal
abstractions. (James Estrin/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT8) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER, 6-11 --
The New York Shakespeare Festival presents Thornton Wilder's ``Skin
of Our Teeth,'' now in previews at the Delacourte Theater in
Central Park. Summer is the season when theatergoers get a chance
to breathe free. The warm weather provides drama in the big
outdoors, scorched by the sun or drenched in moonlight, simmered in
the growing humidity or cooled by the gentle whispers of the night.
(Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT7) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- THEATER-NOTES, 6-11 -- Simon
McBurney, whose Theatre de Complicite brought its critically
praised production of Ionesco's comedy ``The Chairs'' to Broadway
for a limited run that ends Saturday. ``Our production is not a
play, as we understand a play,'' he says of ``Street of
Crocodiles,'' which he will direct at Lincoln Center next month.
``And I would not call it drama, as we understand drama. But it is
definitely theater.'' (Jack Manning/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT6) BECKET, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- DANCE-JACOBS-PILLOW, 6-11 -- Ella Baff, the head of Jacob's
Pillow Dance Festival, during a Ballet Hispanico rehearsal. At the
Pillow, there will be programs by 19 companies and solo dancers in
the two theaters, with additional events on an informal outdoor
stage. Eleven dances and works-in-progress have been commissioned
by the Pillow, which won this year's prestigious Capezio Award for
service to the field. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT5) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
COLTRANE-JAZZ, 6-11 -- ``From the minute I picked up the horn,''
says Ravi Coltrane holding his saxaphone. ``I started to see that I
was going to get some breaks that other guys wouldn't get.'' After
appearing as a sideman on 29 records, Coltrane made a debut album,
``Moving Pictures'' (RCA/BMG), released last month. He will perform
tonight in one of the biggest events of the Texaco New York Jazz
Festival: a double bill with his group and that of his namesake,
the sitarist Ravi Shankar, at Town Hall in Manhattan. (Fred R.
Conrad/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT4) OAHU, Hawaii -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- TV-THORNBIRDS-CHAMBERLAIN, 6-11 -- Richard Chamberlain at a
friend's home on Oahu. Chamberlain, 63, who starred as Father Ralph
de Bricassart in ``The Thorn Birds,'' spends most of his time
painting. ``The business has just gotten too tough for me,'' he
says. (David Skull/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT3) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-2, 6-11 -- Jane Lapotaire and Paul Jesson in the
Royal Shakespeare Company production of ``Henry VIII'' at the
Majestic Theater at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. This is the most
fully realized of the three Shakespeare productions in the
company's five-play touring repertory, which, following its
Brooklyn engagement, is now at the Kennedy Center in Washington
through July 5. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT2) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-1, 6-11 -- Joanne Pearce of the Royal Shakespeare
Company as the Princess Imogen in Adrian Noble's production of
``Cymbeline.'' Adrian Noble, the RSC's artistic director, is
responsible for the production. Noble's production looks good, but
it slides too smoothly through the fanciful events of the play
without ever finding the appeal or truth of its characters.(Sara
Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT1) HOUSTON -- June 11, 1998 -- HABITAT-VOLUNTEERS-HNS, 6-11
-- Becky Neuhaus, right, shows a T-shirt to Teresa Geisheker at
Habitat for Humanity's warehouse in Houston. Ms. Neuhaus is
volunteer services chairwoman for the organization. She is busy
making goodie bags for the 6,000 volunteers who will work next week
building 100 low-income homes for families in Houston. It will be
the largest Habitat project ever conducted in the United
States.(Kirk Wagner/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   The New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0408 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:41 ',
			header: '
A5595 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BOX-DELAHOYA-LADN     06-11 0609
',
			slug: ' BC-BOX-DELAHOYA-LADN ',
			headline: '
DE LA HOYA IS PRINCE OF EL PASO
',
			trailer: '
   When Oscar De La Hoya's plane landed on a private airfield in El
Paso on Tuesday, the townspeople made their feelings clear.

   An estimated 800 _ mostly smitten young ladies _ were there to
greet him, pressed up against a chainlink fence that saved the
dashing boxer from being mauled before he fights Patrick
Charpentier on Saturday at the Sun Bowl.

   For an hour, De La Hoya went from one end of the fence to the
other signing autographs and greeting fans, some of whom literally
climbed over one another to get to him. At least one bra was thrown
his way, according to an observer.

   Yes, El Paso, an otherwise sleepy Texas town, is in love.

   ``It's just a phenomenon,'' said Robert Seltzer, the veteran
boxing writer for the El Paso Times. ``People really relate to him
here. One, because he's Hispanic and this town is 72-percent
Hispanic. I think it goes beyond that, though. He's good looking.
He's so wholesome. He doesn't talk down to anyone. I think that
appeals to people in El Paso.

   ``They see him as a young man who hasn't been corrupted by his
celebrity. Other than his bank account and his fame, he could be
one of them.''

   The overwhelming reception began long before De La Hoya arrived
to make the fourth defense of his WBC welterweight title.

   Roughly !ital!33,000!off! tickets were sold the day they went on
sale (April 4) for the fight. Eager fans reportedly began lining up
as early as 5 o'clock in the morning even though ticket windows
didn't open until 9.

   As of Wednesday, that number was close to 45,000. Organizers
opened one of two sections they hadn't planned to use and were
talking about opening the second earlier in the week. They expect a
sellout of 50,000-plus, which would be one of the largest crowds in
boxing history.

   The first year the Dallas Cowboys held a scrimmage at the Sun
Bowl, in 1995, the stadium sold out and the annual Sun Bowl game
draws decent crowds. No one in these parts, however, has seen
anything quite like this. Heck, the Rolling Stones couldn't even
sell out the stadium.

   Nick Huzella, the owner of the popular El Paso Buzzards hockey
team (``back-to-back champions of the Western Professional Hockey
League,'' he boasted), bought the gate for $1.3 million, meaning he
stood to win or lose depending upon attendance.

   His projected break-even point? Thirty thousand.

   ``Obviously, it was a big risk on my part,'' said Huzella,
gleeful beyond description. ``After the first weekend, though, we
already were past break even. Yeah, I was pleasantly surprised.

   ``The Cowboys scrimmage was big, but the gross gate receipts for
this will far surpass what the Cowboys did.''

   Apparently, the people here don't care who De La Hoya is
fighting. Many couldn't come up with Charpentier's name if asked.
In fact, some might not even be well-versed in boxing at all,
although the sport is tremendously popular among Latinos.

   One starry-eyed girl referred to De La Hoya as ``my favorite
player,'' according to amused El Paso Mayor Carlos Ramirez.

   Clearly, De La Hoya's fans, even those who have plunked down
between $25 and $300 to see him fight, are content merely to see
him. This event will be long remembered in a town not accustomed to
such excitement.

   De La Hoya's reaction to all this?

   ``I'm positively returning here, right Bob?,'' De La Hoya said,
turning to promoter Bob Arum. ``As a matter of fact, I'm pretty
sure I'm going to find my wife in El Paso.''
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By MICHAEL ROSENTHAL  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   When Oscar De La Hoya's plane landed on a private airfield in El
Paso on Tuesday, the townspeople made their feelings clear.

   An estimated 800 _ mostly smitten young ladies _ were there to
greet him, pressed up against a chainlink fence that saved the
dashing boxer from being mauled before he fights Patrick
Charpentier on Saturday at the Sun Bowl.

   For an hour, De La Hoya went from one end of the fence to the
other signing autographs and greeting fans, some of whom literally
climbed over one another to get to him. At least one bra was thrown
his way, according to an observer.

   Yes, El Paso, an otherwise sleepy Texas town, is in love.

   ``It's just a phenomenon,'' said Robert Seltzer, the veteran
boxing writer for the El Paso Times. ``People really relate to him
here. One, because he's Hispanic and this town is 72-percent
Hispanic. I think it goes beyond that, though. He's good looking.
He's so wholesome. He doesn't talk down to anyone. I think that
appeals to people in El Paso.

   ``They see him as a young man who hasn't been corrupted by his
celebrity. Other than his bank account and his fame, he could be
one of them.''

   The overwhelming reception began long before De La Hoya arrived
to make the fourth defense of his WBC welterweight title.

   Roughly !ital!33,000!off! tickets were sold the day they went on
sale (April 4) for the fight. Eager fans reportedly began lining up
as early as 5 o'clock in the morning even though ticket windows
didn't open until 9.

   As of Wednesday, that number was close to 45,000. Organizers
opened one of two sections they hadn't planned to use and were
talking about opening the second earlier in the week. They expect a
sellout of 50,000-plus, which would be one of the largest crowds in
boxing history.

   The first year the Dallas Cowboys held a scrimmage at the Sun
Bowl, in 1995, the stadium sold out and the annual Sun Bowl game
draws decent crowds. No one in these parts, however, has seen
anything quite like this. Heck, the Rolling Stones couldn't even
sell out the stadium.

   Nick Huzella, the owner of the popular El Paso Buzzards hockey
team (``back-to-back champions of the Western Professional Hockey
League,'' he boasted), bought the gate for $1.3 million, meaning he
stood to win or lose depending upon attendance.

   His projected break-even point? Thirty thousand.

   ``Obviously, it was a big risk on my part,'' said Huzella,
gleeful beyond description. ``After the first weekend, though, we
already were past break even. Yeah, I was pleasantly surprised.

   ``The Cowboys scrimmage was big, but the gross gate receipts for
this will far surpass what the Cowboys did.''

   Apparently, the people here don't care who De La Hoya is
fighting. Many couldn't come up with Charpentier's name if asked.
In fact, some might not even be well-versed in boxing at all,
although the sport is tremendously popular among Latinos.

   One starry-eyed girl referred to De La Hoya as ``my favorite
player,'' according to amused El Paso Mayor Carlos Ramirez.

   Clearly, De La Hoya's fans, even those who have plunked down
between $25 and $300 to see him fight, are content merely to see
him. This event will be long remembered in a town not accustomed to
such excitement.

   De La Hoya's reaction to all this?

   ``I'm positively returning here, right Bob?,'' De La Hoya said,
turning to promoter Bob Arum. ``As a matter of fact, I'm pretty
sure I'm going to find my wife in El Paso.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0409 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:41 ',
			header: '
A5596 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT     06-11 1810
',
			slug: ' BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   ATTENTION EDITORS: The following photos are part of tonight's
New York Times Photo Package, moving 6/11/98. Photo clients will
automatically receive these photos via AP's PhotoExpress or may
download them from either the Wieck Photo Database in Dallas at
972-392-0888 or from NYTPhotos on Newscom at 305-448-8411.
Non-clients can make individual purchases by calling 212-556-4204.

   EDS: Please note that a photo to go with REED-POLITICS moved
yesterday, June 10.

   (NYT22) TRURO, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- HOOD-BOY-BOS, 6-10 --
Joseph Souza wears his new spaceman-style hood at the Truro Central
School. The hood has made it possible for the 12-year-old to go
places he hasn't been able to go for the last six years since
having severe allergic reactions to chemicals. ``I would have worn
a clown suit with a fish jumping out of the hat if it meant I could
come back to school,'' he says. (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT21) DEDHAM, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- DONNA-OPTIMIST-BOS,
6-11 -- Donna Harris-Lewis, widow of the late Boston Celtic, Reggie
Lewis. Even though a half decade has elapsed since Lewis' death,
his widow has yet to erect a headstone in his memory, a sign, she
says, of how unsettled she still feels. ``You know why?'' she asks.
``It's very overwhelming, all that's taken place. He's not totally
rested, and neither am I.'' (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT20) SALT LAKE CITY -- June 11, 1998 -- BAPTISTS-DOBSON, 6-11
-- James Dobson, president and founder of Focus on the Family, an
independent evangelical organization, gives the keynote address
during the final session of the Southern Baptist Convention's
annual meeting in Salt Lake City on Thursday. ``Too many churches
have responded with apathy and accommodation to the evils of the
culture,'' he says. (Alan Youngblood/Ocala Star-Banner Photo)

   (NYT19) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- TOBACCO-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle meets with reporters Thursday
to discuss tobacco legislation. For the second time in a month, the
Senate rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT18) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-BOIES-PROFILE, 6-11 --
David Boies is the government's lawyer in its suit against
Microsoft. Tough case? ``Not really, to be honest,'' says Boies,
57. ``You're applying antitrust principles to software. It's
interesting, and it's important. But it's not that difficult.''
(Librado Romero/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT17) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-2, 6-11 --
A bulletin board suggests the cultural diversity at PS 290, the
Manhattan New School, where the 525 students, all told, can speak
in more than 30 languages. The school is also playing host to an
increasing number of children of Balkan immigrants. From classrooms
to the lunchroom, in drawings and in essays, these children recount
stories of death and destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip
Greenberg/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT16) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-1, 6-11 --
Leonela Rodoncic, her hands cupped by her ears, has told her
classmates at PS 290 in Manhattan of relatives killed in war.
Stories like Leonela's are increasingly finding their way into the
school, where the children of Balkan immigrants are one of the
fastest-growing groups. From classrooms to the lunchroom, in
drawings and in essays, these children recount stories of death and
destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip Greenberg/New York
Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT15) LINDEN, N.J. -- June 11, 1998 -- GM-STRIKE, 6-11 --
Union members being interviewed outside a GM plant in Linden.
Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike Thursday night at a General
Motors spark plug and speedometer factory in Flint, Mich., joining
fellow strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter
fight that could close all of the leading auto maker's North
American assembly plants within days. (Frank C. Dougherty/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT14) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN, 6-11
-- At the Licensing '98 Convention in the Jacob Javits Convention
Center, Brian Hakan, president of Hakan &AMP; Associates, brandishes a
T-shirt with the pint-sized Taco Bell dog, a poster of the
chihuahua behind him. Corporations have seized upon brand licensing
to promote their products beyond the usual showrooms or supermarket
shelves. (Marilynn K. Yee/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT13) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CLINTON, 6-11 --
President Clinton addresses a gathering at the National Geographic
Society in Washington on Thursday. ``Seeking to isolate China is
clearly unworkable,'' he says. ``Even our friends and allies around
the world do not support us in that. We would succeed instead in
isolating ourselves and our own policy.'' (Paul Hosefros/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT12) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Foreign Relations committee Chairman Sen. Jesse Helms, left,
and Sen. Joe Biden during a Thursday hearing on Chinese missile
proliferation. ``The administration has sought to shield China, and
the U.S. satellite vendors, from the effects of U.S. sanctions,''
says Helms. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT11) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-2-HNS, 6-11 -- A
man watches the rain fall from the doorway of a synogouge in
Havana. Before the 1959 revolution, an estimated 15,000 Jews made
their home in Cuba, but thousands fled when Castro took over. The
Jews most active in Havana today often are middle-aged people and
youths, newcomers to Jewish life. Their presence offers hope to the
few who remained faithful during those years when religious
practice was much harder to maintain. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston
Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT10) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-1-HNS, 6-11 --
Jewish men look over Torah scrolls in a small room at Havana's
Patronato, a community center. Before the 1959 revolution, an
estimated 15,000 Jews made their home in Cuba, but thousands fled
when Castro took over. Havana's three synagogues barely survived,
rarely able to attract more than a ``minyan,'' the 10 Jewish men
required to hold a service. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT9) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- RAY-EXHIBIT, 6-11 -- Charles
Ray's latest, biggest work, ``Unpainted Sculpture,'' part of a
retrospective at the Whitney Museum. The piece reproduces in gray
Fiberglas a wrecked Pontiac, evoking John Chamberlain's sculptures
of crushed cars and, less obviously, Anthony Caro's metal
abstractions. (James Estrin/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT8) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER, 6-11 --
The New York Shakespeare Festival presents Thornton Wilder's ``Skin
of Our Teeth,'' now in previews at the Delacourte Theater in
Central Park. Summer is the season when theatergoers get a chance
to breathe free. The warm weather provides drama in the big
outdoors, scorched by the sun or drenched in moonlight, simmered in
the growing humidity or cooled by the gentle whispers of the night.
(Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT7) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- THEATER-NOTES, 6-11 -- Simon
McBurney, whose Theatre de Complicite brought its critically
praised production of Ionesco's comedy ``The Chairs'' to Broadway
for a limited run that ends Saturday. ``Our production is not a
play, as we understand a play,'' he says of ``Street of
Crocodiles,'' which he will direct at Lincoln Center next month.
``And I would not call it drama, as we understand drama. But it is
definitely theater.'' (Jack Manning/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT6) BECKET, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- DANCE-JACOBS-PILLOW, 6-11 -- Ella Baff, the head of Jacob's
Pillow Dance Festival, during a Ballet Hispanico rehearsal. At the
Pillow, there will be programs by 19 companies and solo dancers in
the two theaters, with additional events on an informal outdoor
stage. Eleven dances and works-in-progress have been commissioned
by the Pillow, which won this year's prestigious Capezio Award for
service to the field. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT5) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
COLTRANE-JAZZ, 6-11 -- ``From the minute I picked up the horn,''
says Ravi Coltrane holding his saxaphone. ``I started to see that I
was going to get some breaks that other guys wouldn't get.'' After
appearing as a sideman on 29 records, Coltrane made a debut album,
``Moving Pictures'' (RCA/BMG), released last month. He will perform
tonight in one of the biggest events of the Texaco New York Jazz
Festival: a double bill with his group and that of his namesake,
the sitarist Ravi Shankar, at Town Hall in Manhattan. (Fred R.
Conrad/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT4) OAHU, Hawaii -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- TV-THORNBIRDS-CHAMBERLAIN, 6-11 -- Richard Chamberlain at a
friend's home on Oahu. Chamberlain, 63, who starred as Father Ralph
de Bricassart in ``The Thorn Birds,'' spends most of his time
painting. ``The business has just gotten too tough for me,'' he
says. (David Skull/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT3) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-2, 6-11 -- Jane Lapotaire and Paul Jesson in the
Royal Shakespeare Company production of ``Henry VIII'' at the
Majestic Theater at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. This is the most
fully realized of the three Shakespeare productions in the
company's five-play touring repertory, which, following its
Brooklyn engagement, is now at the Kennedy Center in Washington
through July 5. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT2) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-1, 6-11 -- Joanne Pearce of the Royal Shakespeare
Company as the Princess Imogen in Adrian Noble's production of
``Cymbeline.'' Adrian Noble, the RSC's artistic director, is
responsible for the production. Noble's production looks good, but
it slides too smoothly through the fanciful events of the play
without ever finding the appeal or truth of its characters.(Sara
Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT1) HOUSTON -- June 11, 1998 -- HABITAT-VOLUNTEERS-HNS, 6-11
-- Becky Neuhaus, right, shows a T-shirt to Teresa Geisheker at
Habitat for Humanity's warehouse in Houston. Ms. Neuhaus is
volunteer services chairwoman for the organization. She is busy
making goodie bags for the 6,000 volunteers who will work next week
building 100 low-income homes for families in Houston. It will be
the largest Habitat project ever conducted in the United
States.(Kirk Wagner/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   The New York Times News Service
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATTENTION EDITORS: The following photos are part of tonight's
New York Times Photo Package, moving 6/11/98. Photo clients will
automatically receive these photos via AP's PhotoExpress or may
download them from either the Wieck Photo Database in Dallas at
972-392-0888 or from NYTPhotos on Newscom at 305-448-8411.
Non-clients can make individual purchases by calling 212-556-4204.

   EDS: Please note that a photo to go with REED-POLITICS moved
yesterday, June 10.

   (NYT22) TRURO, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- HOOD-BOY-BOS, 6-10 --
Joseph Souza wears his new spaceman-style hood at the Truro Central
School. The hood has made it possible for the 12-year-old to go
places he hasn't been able to go for the last six years since
having severe allergic reactions to chemicals. ``I would have worn
a clown suit with a fish jumping out of the hat if it meant I could
come back to school,'' he says. (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT21) DEDHAM, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- DONNA-OPTIMIST-BOS,
6-11 -- Donna Harris-Lewis, widow of the late Boston Celtic, Reggie
Lewis. Even though a half decade has elapsed since Lewis' death,
his widow has yet to erect a headstone in his memory, a sign, she
says, of how unsettled she still feels. ``You know why?'' she asks.
``It's very overwhelming, all that's taken place. He's not totally
rested, and neither am I.'' (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT20) SALT LAKE CITY -- June 11, 1998 -- BAPTISTS-DOBSON, 6-11
-- James Dobson, president and founder of Focus on the Family, an
independent evangelical organization, gives the keynote address
during the final session of the Southern Baptist Convention's
annual meeting in Salt Lake City on Thursday. ``Too many churches
have responded with apathy and accommodation to the evils of the
culture,'' he says. (Alan Youngblood/Ocala Star-Banner Photo)

   (NYT19) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- TOBACCO-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle meets with reporters Thursday
to discuss tobacco legislation. For the second time in a month, the
Senate rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT18) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-BOIES-PROFILE, 6-11 --
David Boies is the government's lawyer in its suit against
Microsoft. Tough case? ``Not really, to be honest,'' says Boies,
57. ``You're applying antitrust principles to software. It's
interesting, and it's important. But it's not that difficult.''
(Librado Romero/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT17) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-2, 6-11 --
A bulletin board suggests the cultural diversity at PS 290, the
Manhattan New School, where the 525 students, all told, can speak
in more than 30 languages. The school is also playing host to an
increasing number of children of Balkan immigrants. From classrooms
to the lunchroom, in drawings and in essays, these children recount
stories of death and destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip
Greenberg/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT16) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-1, 6-11 --
Leonela Rodoncic, her hands cupped by her ears, has told her
classmates at PS 290 in Manhattan of relatives killed in war.
Stories like Leonela's are increasingly finding their way into the
school, where the children of Balkan immigrants are one of the
fastest-growing groups. From classrooms to the lunchroom, in
drawings and in essays, these children recount stories of death and
destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip Greenberg/New York
Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT15) LINDEN, N.J. -- June 11, 1998 -- GM-STRIKE, 6-11 --
Union members being interviewed outside a GM plant in Linden.
Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike Thursday night at a General
Motors spark plug and speedometer factory in Flint, Mich., joining
fellow strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter
fight that could close all of the leading auto maker's North
American assembly plants within days. (Frank C. Dougherty/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT14) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN, 6-11
-- At the Licensing '98 Convention in the Jacob Javits Convention
Center, Brian Hakan, president of Hakan &AMP; Associates, brandishes a
T-shirt with the pint-sized Taco Bell dog, a poster of the
chihuahua behind him. Corporations have seized upon brand licensing
to promote their products beyond the usual showrooms or supermarket
shelves. (Marilynn K. Yee/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT13) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CLINTON, 6-11 --
President Clinton addresses a gathering at the National Geographic
Society in Washington on Thursday. ``Seeking to isolate China is
clearly unworkable,'' he says. ``Even our friends and allies around
the world do not support us in that. We would succeed instead in
isolating ourselves and our own policy.'' (Paul Hosefros/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT12) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Foreign Relations committee Chairman Sen. Jesse Helms, left,
and Sen. Joe Biden during a Thursday hearing on Chinese missile
proliferation. ``The administration has sought to shield China, and
the U.S. satellite vendors, from the effects of U.S. sanctions,''
says Helms. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT11) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-2-HNS, 6-11 -- A
man watches the rain fall from the doorway of a synogouge in
Havana. Before the 1959 revolution, an estimated 15,000 Jews made
their home in Cuba, but thousands fled when Castro took over. The
Jews most active in Havana today often are middle-aged people and
youths, newcomers to Jewish life. Their presence offers hope to the
few who remained faithful during those years when religious
practice was much harder to maintain. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston
Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT10) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-1-HNS, 6-11 --
Jewish men look over Torah scrolls in a small room at Havana's
Patronato, a community center. Before the 1959 revolution, an
estimated 15,000 Jews made their home in Cuba, but thousands fled
when Castro took over. Havana's three synagogues barely survived,
rarely able to attract more than a ``minyan,'' the 10 Jewish men
required to hold a service. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT9) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- RAY-EXHIBIT, 6-11 -- Charles
Ray's latest, biggest work, ``Unpainted Sculpture,'' part of a
retrospective at the Whitney Museum. The piece reproduces in gray
Fiberglas a wrecked Pontiac, evoking John Chamberlain's sculptures
of crushed cars and, less obviously, Anthony Caro's metal
abstractions. (James Estrin/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT8) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER, 6-11 --
The New York Shakespeare Festival presents Thornton Wilder's ``Skin
of Our Teeth,'' now in previews at the Delacourte Theater in
Central Park. Summer is the season when theatergoers get a chance
to breathe free. The warm weather provides drama in the big
outdoors, scorched by the sun or drenched in moonlight, simmered in
the growing humidity or cooled by the gentle whispers of the night.
(Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT7) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- THEATER-NOTES, 6-11 -- Simon
McBurney, whose Theatre de Complicite brought its critically
praised production of Ionesco's comedy ``The Chairs'' to Broadway
for a limited run that ends Saturday. ``Our production is not a
play, as we understand a play,'' he says of ``Street of
Crocodiles,'' which he will direct at Lincoln Center next month.
``And I would not call it drama, as we understand drama. But it is
definitely theater.'' (Jack Manning/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT6) BECKET, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- DANCE-JACOBS-PILLOW, 6-11 -- Ella Baff, the head of Jacob's
Pillow Dance Festival, during a Ballet Hispanico rehearsal. At the
Pillow, there will be programs by 19 companies and solo dancers in
the two theaters, with additional events on an informal outdoor
stage. Eleven dances and works-in-progress have been commissioned
by the Pillow, which won this year's prestigious Capezio Award for
service to the field. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT5) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
COLTRANE-JAZZ, 6-11 -- ``From the minute I picked up the horn,''
says Ravi Coltrane holding his saxaphone. ``I started to see that I
was going to get some breaks that other guys wouldn't get.'' After
appearing as a sideman on 29 records, Coltrane made a debut album,
``Moving Pictures'' (RCA/BMG), released last month. He will perform
tonight in one of the biggest events of the Texaco New York Jazz
Festival: a double bill with his group and that of his namesake,
the sitarist Ravi Shankar, at Town Hall in Manhattan. (Fred R.
Conrad/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT4) OAHU, Hawaii -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- TV-THORNBIRDS-CHAMBERLAIN, 6-11 -- Richard Chamberlain at a
friend's home on Oahu. Chamberlain, 63, who starred as Father Ralph
de Bricassart in ``The Thorn Birds,'' spends most of his time
painting. ``The business has just gotten too tough for me,'' he
says. (David Skull/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT3) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-2, 6-11 -- Jane Lapotaire and Paul Jesson in the
Royal Shakespeare Company production of ``Henry VIII'' at the
Majestic Theater at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. This is the most
fully realized of the three Shakespeare productions in the
company's five-play touring repertory, which, following its
Brooklyn engagement, is now at the Kennedy Center in Washington
through July 5. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT2) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-1, 6-11 -- Joanne Pearce of the Royal Shakespeare
Company as the Princess Imogen in Adrian Noble's production of
``Cymbeline.'' Adrian Noble, the RSC's artistic director, is
responsible for the production. Noble's production looks good, but
it slides too smoothly through the fanciful events of the play
without ever finding the appeal or truth of its characters.(Sara
Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT1) HOUSTON -- June 11, 1998 -- HABITAT-VOLUNTEERS-HNS, 6-11
-- Becky Neuhaus, right, shows a T-shirt to Teresa Geisheker at
Habitat for Humanity's warehouse in Houston. Ms. Neuhaus is
volunteer services chairwoman for the organization. She is busy
making goodie bags for the 6,000 volunteers who will work next week
building 100 low-income homes for families in Houston. It will be
the largest Habitat project ever conducted in the United
States.(Kirk Wagner/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   The New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0410 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:43 ',
			header: '
A5598 &Cx1f; ttf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT     06-11 1810
',
			slug: ' BC-PHOTO-FULL-UPDATE-NYT ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   ATTENTION EDITORS: The following photos are part of tonight's
New York Times Photo Package, moving 6/11/98. Photo clients will
automatically receive these photos via AP's PhotoExpress or may
download them from either the Wieck Photo Database in Dallas at
972-392-0888 or from NYTPhotos on Newscom at 305-448-8411.
Non-clients can make individual purchases by calling 212-556-4204.

   EDS: Please note that a photo to go with REED-POLITICS moved
yesterday, June 10.

   (NYT22) TRURO, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- HOOD-BOY-BOS, 6-10 --
Joseph Souza wears his new spaceman-style hood at the Truro Central
School. The hood has made it possible for the 12-year-old to go
places he hasn't been able to go for the last six years since
having severe allergic reactions to chemicals. ``I would have worn
a clown suit with a fish jumping out of the hat if it meant I could
come back to school,'' he says. (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT21) DEDHAM, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- DONNA-OPTIMIST-BOS,
6-11 -- Donna Harris-Lewis, widow of the late Boston Celtic, Reggie
Lewis. Even though a half decade has elapsed since Lewis' death,
his widow has yet to erect a headstone in his memory, a sign, she
says, of how unsettled she still feels. ``You know why?'' she asks.
``It's very overwhelming, all that's taken place. He's not totally
rested, and neither am I.'' (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT20) SALT LAKE CITY -- June 11, 1998 -- BAPTISTS-DOBSON, 6-11
-- James Dobson, president and founder of Focus on the Family, an
independent evangelical organization, gives the keynote address
during the final session of the Southern Baptist Convention's
annual meeting in Salt Lake City on Thursday. ``Too many churches
have responded with apathy and accommodation to the evils of the
culture,'' he says. (Alan Youngblood/Ocala Star-Banner Photo)

   (NYT19) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- TOBACCO-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle meets with reporters Thursday
to discuss tobacco legislation. For the second time in a month, the
Senate rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT18) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-BOIES-PROFILE, 6-11 --
David Boies is the government's lawyer in its suit against
Microsoft. Tough case? ``Not really, to be honest,'' says Boies,
57. ``You're applying antitrust principles to software. It's
interesting, and it's important. But it's not that difficult.''
(Librado Romero/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT17) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-2, 6-11 --
A bulletin board suggests the cultural diversity at PS 290, the
Manhattan New School, where the 525 students, all told, can speak
in more than 30 languages. The school is also playing host to an
increasing number of children of Balkan immigrants. From classrooms
to the lunchroom, in drawings and in essays, these children recount
stories of death and destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip
Greenberg/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT16) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-1, 6-11 --
Leonela Rodoncic, her hands cupped by her ears, has told her
classmates at PS 290 in Manhattan of relatives killed in war.
Stories like Leonela's are increasingly finding their way into the
school, where the children of Balkan immigrants are one of the
fastest-growing groups. From classrooms to the lunchroom, in
drawings and in essays, these children recount stories of death and
destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip Greenberg/New York
Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT15) LINDEN, N.J. -- June 11, 1998 -- GM-STRIKE, 6-11 --
Union members being interviewed outside a GM plant in Linden.
Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike Thursday night at a General
Motors spark plug and speedometer factory in Flint, Mich., joining
fellow strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter
fight that could close all of the leading auto maker's North
American assembly plants within days. (Frank C. Dougherty/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT14) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN, 6-11
-- At the Licensing '98 Convention in the Jacob Javits Convention
Center, Brian Hakan, president of Hakan &AMP; Associates, brandishes a
T-shirt with the pint-sized Taco Bell dog, a poster of the
chihuahua behind him. Corporations have seized upon brand licensing
to promote their products beyond the usual showrooms or supermarket
shelves. (Marilynn K. Yee/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT13) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CLINTON, 6-11 --
President Clinton addresses a gathering at the National Geographic
Society in Washington on Thursday. ``Seeking to isolate China is
clearly unworkable,'' he says. ``Even our friends and allies around
the world do not support us in that. We would succeed instead in
isolating ourselves and our own policy.'' (Paul Hosefros/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT12) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Foreign Relations committee Chairman Sen. Jesse Helms, left,
and Sen. Joe Biden during a Thursday hearing on Chinese missile
proliferation. ``The administration has sought to shield China, and
the U.S. satellite vendors, from the effects of U.S. sanctions,''
says Helms. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT11) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-2-HNS, 6-11 -- A
man watches the rain fall from the doorway of a synogouge in
Havana. Before the 1959 revolution, an estimated 15,000 Jews made
their home in Cuba, but thousands fled when Castro took over. The
Jews most active in Havana today often are middle-aged people and
youths, newcomers to Jewish life. Their presence offers hope to the
few who remained faithful during those years when religious
practice was much harder to maintain. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston
Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT10) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-1-HNS, 6-11 --
Jewish men look over Torah scrolls in a small room at Havana's
Patronato, a community center. Before the 1959 revolution, an
estimated 15,000 Jews made their home in Cuba, but thousands fled
when Castro took over. Havana's three synagogues barely survived,
rarely able to attract more than a ``minyan,'' the 10 Jewish men
required to hold a service. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT9) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- RAY-EXHIBIT, 6-11 -- Charles
Ray's latest, biggest work, ``Unpainted Sculpture,'' part of a
retrospective at the Whitney Museum. The piece reproduces in gray
Fiberglas a wrecked Pontiac, evoking John Chamberlain's sculptures
of crushed cars and, less obviously, Anthony Caro's metal
abstractions. (James Estrin/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT8) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER, 6-11 --
The New York Shakespeare Festival presents Thornton Wilder's ``Skin
of Our Teeth,'' now in previews at the Delacourte Theater in
Central Park. Summer is the season when theatergoers get a chance
to breathe free. The warm weather provides drama in the big
outdoors, scorched by the sun or drenched in moonlight, simmered in
the growing humidity or cooled by the gentle whispers of the night.
(Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT7) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- THEATER-NOTES, 6-11 -- Simon
McBurney, whose Theatre de Complicite brought its critically
praised production of Ionesco's comedy ``The Chairs'' to Broadway
for a limited run that ends Saturday. ``Our production is not a
play, as we understand a play,'' he says of ``Street of
Crocodiles,'' which he will direct at Lincoln Center next month.
``And I would not call it drama, as we understand drama. But it is
definitely theater.'' (Jack Manning/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT6) BECKET, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- DANCE-JACOBS-PILLOW, 6-11 -- Ella Baff, the head of Jacob's
Pillow Dance Festival, during a Ballet Hispanico rehearsal. At the
Pillow, there will be programs by 19 companies and solo dancers in
the two theaters, with additional events on an informal outdoor
stage. Eleven dances and works-in-progress have been commissioned
by the Pillow, which won this year's prestigious Capezio Award for
service to the field. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT5) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
COLTRANE-JAZZ, 6-11 -- ``From the minute I picked up the horn,''
says Ravi Coltrane holding his saxaphone. ``I started to see that I
was going to get some breaks that other guys wouldn't get.'' After
appearing as a sideman on 29 records, Coltrane made a debut album,
``Moving Pictures'' (RCA/BMG), released last month. He will perform
tonight in one of the biggest events of the Texaco New York Jazz
Festival: a double bill with his group and that of his namesake,
the sitarist Ravi Shankar, at Town Hall in Manhattan. (Fred R.
Conrad/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT4) OAHU, Hawaii -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- TV-THORNBIRDS-CHAMBERLAIN, 6-11 -- Richard Chamberlain at a
friend's home on Oahu. Chamberlain, 63, who starred as Father Ralph
de Bricassart in ``The Thorn Birds,'' spends most of his time
painting. ``The business has just gotten too tough for me,'' he
says. (David Skull/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT3) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-2, 6-11 -- Jane Lapotaire and Paul Jesson in the
Royal Shakespeare Company production of ``Henry VIII'' at the
Majestic Theater at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. This is the most
fully realized of the three Shakespeare productions in the
company's five-play touring repertory, which, following its
Brooklyn engagement, is now at the Kennedy Center in Washington
through July 5. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT2) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-1, 6-11 -- Joanne Pearce of the Royal Shakespeare
Company as the Princess Imogen in Adrian Noble's production of
``Cymbeline.'' Adrian Noble, the RSC's artistic director, is
responsible for the production. Noble's production looks good, but
it slides too smoothly through the fanciful events of the play
without ever finding the appeal or truth of its characters.(Sara
Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT1) HOUSTON -- June 11, 1998 -- HABITAT-VOLUNTEERS-HNS, 6-11
-- Becky Neuhaus, right, shows a T-shirt to Teresa Geisheker at
Habitat for Humanity's warehouse in Houston. Ms. Neuhaus is
volunteer services chairwoman for the organization. She is busy
making goodie bags for the 6,000 volunteers who will work next week
building 100 low-income homes for families in Houston. It will be
the largest Habitat project ever conducted in the United
States.(Kirk Wagner/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   The New York Times News Service
',
			body: '

 

',
			paragraphs: '
   ATTENTION EDITORS: The following photos are part of tonight's
New York Times Photo Package, moving 6/11/98. Photo clients will
automatically receive these photos via AP's PhotoExpress or may
download them from either the Wieck Photo Database in Dallas at
972-392-0888 or from NYTPhotos on Newscom at 305-448-8411.
Non-clients can make individual purchases by calling 212-556-4204.

   EDS: Please note that a photo to go with REED-POLITICS moved
yesterday, June 10.

   (NYT22) TRURO, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- HOOD-BOY-BOS, 6-10 --
Joseph Souza wears his new spaceman-style hood at the Truro Central
School. The hood has made it possible for the 12-year-old to go
places he hasn't been able to go for the last six years since
having severe allergic reactions to chemicals. ``I would have worn
a clown suit with a fish jumping out of the hat if it meant I could
come back to school,'' he says. (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT21) DEDHAM, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- DONNA-OPTIMIST-BOS,
6-11 -- Donna Harris-Lewis, widow of the late Boston Celtic, Reggie
Lewis. Even though a half decade has elapsed since Lewis' death,
his widow has yet to erect a headstone in his memory, a sign, she
says, of how unsettled she still feels. ``You know why?'' she asks.
``It's very overwhelming, all that's taken place. He's not totally
rested, and neither am I.'' (Tom Herde/Boston Globe Photo)

   (NYT20) SALT LAKE CITY -- June 11, 1998 -- BAPTISTS-DOBSON, 6-11
-- James Dobson, president and founder of Focus on the Family, an
independent evangelical organization, gives the keynote address
during the final session of the Southern Baptist Convention's
annual meeting in Salt Lake City on Thursday. ``Too many churches
have responded with apathy and accommodation to the evils of the
culture,'' he says. (Alan Youngblood/Ocala Star-Banner Photo)

   (NYT19) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- TOBACCO-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle meets with reporters Thursday
to discuss tobacco legislation. For the second time in a month, the
Senate rejected a Republican proposal to limit the fees that
lawyers could collect from successful lawsuits against tobacco
companies. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT18) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-BOIES-PROFILE, 6-11 --
David Boies is the government's lawyer in its suit against
Microsoft. Tough case? ``Not really, to be honest,'' says Boies,
57. ``You're applying antitrust principles to software. It's
interesting, and it's important. But it's not that difficult.''
(Librado Romero/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT17) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-2, 6-11 --
A bulletin board suggests the cultural diversity at PS 290, the
Manhattan New School, where the 525 students, all told, can speak
in more than 30 languages. The school is also playing host to an
increasing number of children of Balkan immigrants. From classrooms
to the lunchroom, in drawings and in essays, these children recount
stories of death and destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip
Greenberg/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT16) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-YUGO-STUDENTS-1, 6-11 --
Leonela Rodoncic, her hands cupped by her ears, has told her
classmates at PS 290 in Manhattan of relatives killed in war.
Stories like Leonela's are increasingly finding their way into the
school, where the children of Balkan immigrants are one of the
fastest-growing groups. From classrooms to the lunchroom, in
drawings and in essays, these children recount stories of death and
destruction in the former Yugoslavia. (Philip Greenberg/New York
Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT15) LINDEN, N.J. -- June 11, 1998 -- GM-STRIKE, 6-11 --
Union members being interviewed outside a GM plant in Linden.
Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike Thursday night at a General
Motors spark plug and speedometer factory in Flint, Mich., joining
fellow strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter
fight that could close all of the leading auto maker's North
American assembly plants within days. (Frank C. Dougherty/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT14) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- LICENSING-AD-COLUMN, 6-11
-- At the Licensing '98 Convention in the Jacob Javits Convention
Center, Brian Hakan, president of Hakan &AMP; Associates, brandishes a
T-shirt with the pint-sized Taco Bell dog, a poster of the
chihuahua behind him. Corporations have seized upon brand licensing
to promote their products beyond the usual showrooms or supermarket
shelves. (Marilynn K. Yee/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT13) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CLINTON, 6-11 --
President Clinton addresses a gathering at the National Geographic
Society in Washington on Thursday. ``Seeking to isolate China is
clearly unworkable,'' he says. ``Even our friends and allies around
the world do not support us in that. We would succeed instead in
isolating ourselves and our own policy.'' (Paul Hosefros/New York
Times Photo)

   (NYT12) WASHINGTON -- June 11, 1998 -- CHINA-CONGRESS, 6-11 --
Senate Foreign Relations committee Chairman Sen. Jesse Helms, left,
and Sen. Joe Biden during a Thursday hearing on Chinese missile
proliferation. ``The administration has sought to shield China, and
the U.S. satellite vendors, from the effects of U.S. sanctions,''
says Helms. (Stephen Crowley/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT11) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-2-HNS, 6-11 -- A
man watches the rain fall from the doorway of a synogouge in
Havana. Before the 1959 revolution, an estimated 15,000 Jews made
their home in Cuba, but thousands fled when Castro took over. The
Jews most active in Havana today often are middle-aged people and
youths, newcomers to Jewish life. Their presence offers hope to the
few who remained faithful during those years when religious
practice was much harder to maintain. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston
Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT10) HAVANA -- June 11, 1998 -- CUBA-JEWS-1-HNS, 6-11 --
Jewish men look over Torah scrolls in a small room at Havana's
Patronato, a community center. Before the 1959 revolution, an
estimated 15,000 Jews made their home in Cuba, but thousands fled
when Castro took over. Havana's three synagogues barely survived,
rarely able to attract more than a ``minyan,'' the 10 Jewish men
required to hold a service. (Kerwin Plevka/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   (NYT9) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- RAY-EXHIBIT, 6-11 -- Charles
Ray's latest, biggest work, ``Unpainted Sculpture,'' part of a
retrospective at the Whitney Museum. The piece reproduces in gray
Fiberglas a wrecked Pontiac, evoking John Chamberlain's sculptures
of crushed cars and, less obviously, Anthony Caro's metal
abstractions. (James Estrin/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT8) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER, 6-11 --
The New York Shakespeare Festival presents Thornton Wilder's ``Skin
of Our Teeth,'' now in previews at the Delacourte Theater in
Central Park. Summer is the season when theatergoers get a chance
to breathe free. The warm weather provides drama in the big
outdoors, scorched by the sun or drenched in moonlight, simmered in
the growing humidity or cooled by the gentle whispers of the night.
(Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT7) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- THEATER-NOTES, 6-11 -- Simon
McBurney, whose Theatre de Complicite brought its critically
praised production of Ionesco's comedy ``The Chairs'' to Broadway
for a limited run that ends Saturday. ``Our production is not a
play, as we understand a play,'' he says of ``Street of
Crocodiles,'' which he will direct at Lincoln Center next month.
``And I would not call it drama, as we understand drama. But it is
definitely theater.'' (Jack Manning/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT6) BECKET, Mass. -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- DANCE-JACOBS-PILLOW, 6-11 -- Ella Baff, the head of Jacob's
Pillow Dance Festival, during a Ballet Hispanico rehearsal. At the
Pillow, there will be programs by 19 companies and solo dancers in
the two theaters, with additional events on an informal outdoor
stage. Eleven dances and works-in-progress have been commissioned
by the Pillow, which won this year's prestigious Capezio Award for
service to the field. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT5) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
COLTRANE-JAZZ, 6-11 -- ``From the minute I picked up the horn,''
says Ravi Coltrane holding his saxaphone. ``I started to see that I
was going to get some breaks that other guys wouldn't get.'' After
appearing as a sideman on 29 records, Coltrane made a debut album,
``Moving Pictures'' (RCA/BMG), released last month. He will perform
tonight in one of the biggest events of the Texaco New York Jazz
Festival: a double bill with his group and that of his namesake,
the sitarist Ravi Shankar, at Town Hall in Manhattan. (Fred R.
Conrad/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT4) OAHU, Hawaii -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14
-- TV-THORNBIRDS-CHAMBERLAIN, 6-11 -- Richard Chamberlain at a
friend's home on Oahu. Chamberlain, 63, who starred as Father Ralph
de Bricassart in ``The Thorn Birds,'' spends most of his time
painting. ``The business has just gotten too tough for me,'' he
says. (David Skull/New York Times Photo) *LITE

   (NYT3) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-2, 6-11 -- Jane Lapotaire and Paul Jesson in the
Royal Shakespeare Company production of ``Henry VIII'' at the
Majestic Theater at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. This is the most
fully realized of the three Shakespeare productions in the
company's five-play touring repertory, which, following its
Brooklyn engagement, is now at the Kennedy Center in Washington
through July 5. (Sara Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT2) NEW YORK -- June 11, 1998 -- ADV. FOR SUN., JUNE 14 --
CANBY-SHAKESPEARE-1, 6-11 -- Joanne Pearce of the Royal Shakespeare
Company as the Princess Imogen in Adrian Noble's production of
``Cymbeline.'' Adrian Noble, the RSC's artistic director, is
responsible for the production. Noble's production looks good, but
it slides too smoothly through the fanciful events of the play
without ever finding the appeal or truth of its characters.(Sara
Krulwich/New York Times Photo)

   (NYT1) HOUSTON -- June 11, 1998 -- HABITAT-VOLUNTEERS-HNS, 6-11
-- Becky Neuhaus, right, shows a T-shirt to Teresa Geisheker at
Habitat for Humanity's warehouse in Houston. Ms. Neuhaus is
volunteer services chairwoman for the organization. She is busy
making goodie bags for the 6,000 volunteers who will work next week
building 100 low-income homes for families in Houston. It will be
the largest Habitat project ever conducted in the United
States.(Kirk Wagner/Houston Chronicle Photo)

   The New York Times News Service
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0411 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:45 ',
			header: '
A5599 &Cx1f; taf-z
u k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EDIT-U.S.-MEXICO-NYT &LR;      06-11 0394
',
			slug: ' BC-EDIT-U.S.-MEXICO-NYT ',
			headline: '
EDITORIAL: A COSTLY STING IN MEXICO 
',
			trailer: '
   The New York Times said in an editorial on Friday, June 12:

   In less than a month the Clinton administration has shifted from
boasting to backtracking about its big drug-money-laundering sting
in Mexico. More than 150 suspected drug traffickers and their
alleged banker confederates were arrested, but Washington,
inexcusably, failed to obtain Mexico's approval for undercover
operations carried out on Mexican soil. That failure has turned a
law enforcement coup into a diplomatic fiasco, with the
administration now trying to repair the damage to drug enforcement
efforts.

   The episode began when American customs agents began
encountering large checks issued in dollars by Mexican banks _
ideal instruments for laundering drug profits. The Customs Service,
which is part of the Treasury Department, ran a sting operation in
the United States to collect more information. Then it notified
mid-level Mexican officials and asked for permission to extend
undercover operations to Mexico. American and Mexican accounts
differ on how much detail Customs provided about its findings and
its undercover plans. But both sides agree that Mexico never gave
the approval that Treasury legally needed to proceed.

   That should have moved matters to a higher level of discussion
between the two governments. Mexico's attorney general could have
been approached directly, or President Ernesto Zedillo himself.
Instead, American officials concluded that corrupt or incompetent
Mexican officials were sitting on their request. Treasury Secretary
Robert Rubin allowed the sting to proceed without Mexican
permission. Neither Secretary of State Madeleine Albright nor the
White House drug czar, Barry McCaffrey, were informed of this
unlawful and undiplomatic venture.

   Undercover activities are sometimes necessary in the fight
against Mexican drug cartels, and many Mexican law enforcement
officials are tied to the drug trade themselves. But Washington
should not stage operations in Mexico without the approval of
Zedillo or one of his Cabinet ministers. Violating Mexican
sovereignty is a sure prescription for undermining cooperation
between the two governments, without which there can be no hope of
success in the fight against drugs. &QL;
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   The New York Times said in an editorial on Friday, June 12:

   In less than a month the Clinton administration has shifted from
boasting to backtracking about its big drug-money-laundering sting
in Mexico. More than 150 suspected drug traffickers and their
alleged banker confederates were arrested, but Washington,
inexcusably, failed to obtain Mexico's approval for undercover
operations carried out on Mexican soil. That failure has turned a
law enforcement coup into a diplomatic fiasco, with the
administration now trying to repair the damage to drug enforcement
efforts.

   The episode began when American customs agents began
encountering large checks issued in dollars by Mexican banks _
ideal instruments for laundering drug profits. The Customs Service,
which is part of the Treasury Department, ran a sting operation in
the United States to collect more information. Then it notified
mid-level Mexican officials and asked for permission to extend
undercover operations to Mexico. American and Mexican accounts
differ on how much detail Customs provided about its findings and
its undercover plans. But both sides agree that Mexico never gave
the approval that Treasury legally needed to proceed.

   That should have moved matters to a higher level of discussion
between the two governments. Mexico's attorney general could have
been approached directly, or President Ernesto Zedillo himself.
Instead, American officials concluded that corrupt or incompetent
Mexican officials were sitting on their request. Treasury Secretary
Robert Rubin allowed the sting to proceed without Mexican
permission. Neither Secretary of State Madeleine Albright nor the
White House drug czar, Barry McCaffrey, were informed of this
unlawful and undiplomatic venture.

   Undercover activities are sometimes necessary in the fight
against Mexican drug cartels, and many Mexican law enforcement
officials are tied to the drug trade themselves. But Washington
should not stage operations in Mexico without the approval of
Zedillo or one of his Cabinet ministers. Violating Mexican
sovereignty is a sure prescription for undermining cooperation
between the two governments, without which there can be no hope of
success in the fight against drugs. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0412 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:46 ',
			header: '
A5600 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BKN--FINALS-HNS &LR;      06-11 0893
',
			slug: ' BC-BKN--FINALS-HNS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Rodman to pay for slain man's funeral

   Jasper case spurs move `for personal reasons'

   &UR; By MICHAEL MURPHY &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
CHICAGO _ Dennis Rodman did a lot of things Wednesday night to put
the Bulls on the verge of keeping alive their dynasty.

   RodmanRodman hauled down 14 rebounds and hit four straight free
throws down the stretch, including a pair with 43.8 seconds left
that went a long way toward icing the 86-82 victory that gave the
Bulls a 3-1 lead over the Utah Jazz in the NBA Finals.

   Chicago can close out the series tonight with a win in Game 5 at
the United Center, a victory that would give the Bulls their third
straight NBA title and sixth in the past eight seasons.

   Rodman had two assists in Wednesday's victory, but he had picked
up his biggest assist earlier in the day. After learning of the
allegedly racially motivated murder of James Byrd Jr. in Jasper,
Rodman, a Dallas native, volunteered to pay for the funeral of the
man who was chained to a pickup truck and dragged to his death.

   Rodman, speaking in his first full media session of the
playoffs, admitted he had some selfish reasons for his gesture.
After skipping practice Monday and participating in a World
Championship Wrestling event in Detroit, a match that was televised
on TNT's Monday Night Nitro, Rodman drew another round of
unfavorable media attention to himself, being pictured as a
childish, self-centered goof-off who was interested in his own
pleasures while his teammates worked toward an NBA title.

   And several of those Bulls teammates thought that as well. But
by offering to pay for Byrd's funeral, Rodman admitted he was
deflecting some of the media attention toward something good for a
change.

   ``A lot of people don't give me credit for doing a lot of good
things around the country, so I guess I had to do something like
this so people could recognize the good side of Dennis Rodman,''
said Rodman at Thursday's practice. ``I'm from Texas, so I think
it's a damned shame that you have racism in this country, that it
has to go that low, so someone has to speak out and do something
like this.

   ``I think more of it (his offer to pay the funeral expenses) is
for personal reasons. It's not because he's black and I'm black and
I'm trying to stick up for the black race. I think it's more the
fact that it's a brutal crime, and someone shouldn't have been in
that situation or shouldn't have been put in that situation. I'd do
it for anybody else if it happened in that way.''

   And Rodman, 37, said he would like to see one outcome from the
trial of the three men who are accused of killing Byrd _ death.

   ``Of course,'' Rodman said. ``In Texas, they believe in the
death penalty. So I think that's what's going to happen, basically,
in the end. Anywhere else in the country, they don't really believe
in the death penalty. They give you life, or three times the (life)
sentence or whatever. But in Texas, they're going to get the death
penalty.''

   Love him or hate him, Rodman knows how to command attention.
Whether he's skipping practice, joining tag-team partner Hulk Hogan
in beating another wrestler over the head with a metal folding
chair or just ``being Dennis,'' Rodman gets noticed.

   And he has Utah's attention after Wednesday's victory in Game 4,
helping to limit Karl Malone to two fourth-quarter points _ a
meaningless 22-foot jumper with 9.2 seconds left in the game.

   More than his signature rebounding, Rodman's defense on Malone
has been one of the key reasons the Bulls are one win from another
NBA title. Malone seems unwilling or unable to get inside and post
up Rodman, something he has done with ease against 7-2, 290-pound
Bulls center Luc Longley.

   ``I think the referees have given me the freedom and the luxury
of playing Karl Malone in this series,'' Rodman said with a shrug.
``If they let me do that, then Karl Malone is not effective against
Dennis Rodman at all.''

   Rodman also hinted Malone might be choking, that the man the
Jazz needs most to come through in the clutch is wilting under the
spotlight.

   ``I've always said, since I've been in the league, that if you
put a guy, besides Michael Jordan, on the spot, most superstars
cannot come through in the clutch,'' Rodman said. ``Besides Michael
Jordan, nobody can come through in the clutch. Not like Michael
Jordan.

   ``I'd rather foul Karl Malone than Michael Jordan down the
stretch. The only person I'm ever intimidated by is my ex-wife
(Annie). That's about it. If he (Malone) wants to be my ex-wife,
well, I'm intimidated.''

   This is the side of Rodman most of his teammates would like to
see more often. When Rodman puts his mind to something, like
shutting down Malone or paying the funeral expenses for a man he
never met, he usually gets things accomplished.

   Rodman said he intends to stay out of the limelight for a while,
even adding he won't feed on the publicity by attending Byrd's
funeral.

   ``I think I've done enough,'' he said. ``I think that's enough.
My heart goes out to the family, and it's a damned shame when
something like this happens and people don't really acknowledge it,
they just kind of blow it off. Hopefully, people will look at me in
a different light, somewhat.''
',
			body: '

  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Rodman to pay for slain man's funeral

   Jasper case spurs move `for personal reasons'

   &UR; By MICHAEL MURPHY &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
CHICAGO _ Dennis Rodman did a lot of things Wednesday night to put
the Bulls on the verge of keeping alive their dynasty.

   RodmanRodman hauled down 14 rebounds and hit four straight free
throws down the stretch, including a pair with 43.8 seconds left
that went a long way toward icing the 86-82 victory that gave the
Bulls a 3-1 lead over the Utah Jazz in the NBA Finals.

   Chicago can close out the series tonight with a win in Game 5 at
the United Center, a victory that would give the Bulls their third
straight NBA title and sixth in the past eight seasons.

   Rodman had two assists in Wednesday's victory, but he had picked
up his biggest assist earlier in the day. After learning of the
allegedly racially motivated murder of James Byrd Jr. in Jasper,
Rodman, a Dallas native, volunteered to pay for the funeral of the
man who was chained to a pickup truck and dragged to his death.

   Rodman, speaking in his first full media session of the
playoffs, admitted he had some selfish reasons for his gesture.
After skipping practice Monday and participating in a World
Championship Wrestling event in Detroit, a match that was televised
on TNT's Monday Night Nitro, Rodman drew another round of
unfavorable media attention to himself, being pictured as a
childish, self-centered goof-off who was interested in his own
pleasures while his teammates worked toward an NBA title.

   And several of those Bulls teammates thought that as well. But
by offering to pay for Byrd's funeral, Rodman admitted he was
deflecting some of the media attention toward something good for a
change.

   ``A lot of people don't give me credit for doing a lot of good
things around the country, so I guess I had to do something like
this so people could recognize the good side of Dennis Rodman,''
said Rodman at Thursday's practice. ``I'm from Texas, so I think
it's a damned shame that you have racism in this country, that it
has to go that low, so someone has to speak out and do something
like this.

   ``I think more of it (his offer to pay the funeral expenses) is
for personal reasons. It's not because he's black and I'm black and
I'm trying to stick up for the black race. I think it's more the
fact that it's a brutal crime, and someone shouldn't have been in
that situation or shouldn't have been put in that situation. I'd do
it for anybody else if it happened in that way.''

   And Rodman, 37, said he would like to see one outcome from the
trial of the three men who are accused of killing Byrd _ death.

   ``Of course,'' Rodman said. ``In Texas, they believe in the
death penalty. So I think that's what's going to happen, basically,
in the end. Anywhere else in the country, they don't really believe
in the death penalty. They give you life, or three times the (life)
sentence or whatever. But in Texas, they're going to get the death
penalty.''

   Love him or hate him, Rodman knows how to command attention.
Whether he's skipping practice, joining tag-team partner Hulk Hogan
in beating another wrestler over the head with a metal folding
chair or just ``being Dennis,'' Rodman gets noticed.

   And he has Utah's attention after Wednesday's victory in Game 4,
helping to limit Karl Malone to two fourth-quarter points _ a
meaningless 22-foot jumper with 9.2 seconds left in the game.

   More than his signature rebounding, Rodman's defense on Malone
has been one of the key reasons the Bulls are one win from another
NBA title. Malone seems unwilling or unable to get inside and post
up Rodman, something he has done with ease against 7-2, 290-pound
Bulls center Luc Longley.

   ``I think the referees have given me the freedom and the luxury
of playing Karl Malone in this series,'' Rodman said with a shrug.
``If they let me do that, then Karl Malone is not effective against
Dennis Rodman at all.''

   Rodman also hinted Malone might be choking, that the man the
Jazz needs most to come through in the clutch is wilting under the
spotlight.

   ``I've always said, since I've been in the league, that if you
put a guy, besides Michael Jordan, on the spot, most superstars
cannot come through in the clutch,'' Rodman said. ``Besides Michael
Jordan, nobody can come through in the clutch. Not like Michael
Jordan.

   ``I'd rather foul Karl Malone than Michael Jordan down the
stretch. The only person I'm ever intimidated by is my ex-wife
(Annie). That's about it. If he (Malone) wants to be my ex-wife,
well, I'm intimidated.''

   This is the side of Rodman most of his teammates would like to
see more often. When Rodman puts his mind to something, like
shutting down Malone or paying the funeral expenses for a man he
never met, he usually gets things accomplished.

   Rodman said he intends to stay out of the limelight for a while,
even adding he won't feed on the publicity by attending Byrd's
funeral.

   ``I think I've done enough,'' he said. ``I think that's enough.
My heart goes out to the family, and it's a damned shame when
something like this happens and people don't really acknowledge it,
they just kind of blow it off. Hopefully, people will look at me in
a different light, somewhat.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0413 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:46 ',
			header: '
A5601 &Cx1f; taf-z
s f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SPEND-SHARES-YACHT-$A     06-11 1082
',
			slug: ' BC-SPEND-SHARES-YACHT-$ADV14-575&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
A YACHT, ALL YOURS, PART TIME  
 (FOR RELEASE SUNDAY, JUNE 14) 
',
			trailer: '
   &UR; `` &LR; The two best days with a yacht are the day you buy it and
the day you sell it,'' lamented Steven Sands, the co-chairman of
Sands Brothers, a New York investment bank. &QL;

   Eugene Melnyk, the chairman of Biovail Pharmaceuticals in
Toronto, shares Sands' ambivalence. ``Owning a big boat,'' he
groused, ``is like owning a second business.''

   But help for both, and for others who can live neither with
their yachts nor without them, may be on the way. And it is coming
from an unlikely source: Irwin L. Jacobs, the 1980s corporate
raider known as ``Irv the Liquidator'' for his habit of acquiring
ailing companies and playing musical chairs with the assets.

   Well, perhaps it is not so unlikely. When the game ended,
Jacobs' portfolio included a dozen boat manufacturers, including
Hatteras, the high-end yacht maker in New Bern, N.C. With fewer
opportunities for slicing and dicing corporations, he put his
restless mind to marketing their products _ notably, the
million-dollar-plus behemoths turned out by Hatteras.

   ``When I asked people at boat shows why they didn't own
yachts,'' Jacobs explained, ``price was an issue, but so was the
hassle factor.''

   Never one to run with the crowd _ he once installed a
delicatessen in a boat showroom in Minnesota to increase foot
traffic _ Jacobs went looking for an unconventional solution to
both problems.

   Hardly anybody wants to spend more than a few months a year
aboard a yacht, he reasoned. And hardly anybody with realistic
aspirations of owning an ocean-going trophy has the time or
inclination to tend to the details of keeping it provisioned and
shipshape. &QL;

   The solution, perhaps inspired by the latest fashion in sales of
private jets: Yacht-scape, a partial-ownership program in which
access to a super-luxe, fully equipped Hatteras yacht is divided
into thirds, while a management company handles everything from
providing the crews to catering the cocktail parties to finding the
perfect beach for sunbathing in the buff.

   Indeed, the managers' job is part mundane maintenance, part
European-style concierge service in which no client's wish is
beyond reach. &UR;

   &LR;  ``We're not just selling a boat; we're selling a life style,''
said Jacobs, testing his sales pitch. &QL;

   Yachtscape's first two fiberglass beauties from Hatteras, the
74-foot Courageous with five bedrooms and the 65-foot Vigilant with
four, are now on the block. Each of the three shares in the
Courageous costs $1 million, or a third of what a single owner
would pay for the boat. &UR;

   &LR;  For this, plus an annual fee of $259,000, each part-owner is
entitled to six 14-day cruises annually, which would keep the boat
in use a total of 36 weeks a year.

   The remaining 113 days are reserved for maintenance,
weather-related down time and the scheduling convenience of the
owners. With this many days of slack, potential conflicts over the
use of the yacht at holidays should be minimized, Jacobs says.

   Paying operating fees that are more than $3,000 a day, the
owners of Courageous will presumably expect a lot, and Yachtscape
aims to exceed their expectations. Everything needed to operate the
boat _ a crew of two and back-up personnel, insurance, dockage fees
and full maintenance _ is included. &UR;

   &LR;  ``If a critical part breaks while the boat is cruising the
coast of Siberia, we'll have a replacement there within 24 hours,''
Jacobs said.

   A tour of Courageous, docked recently at New York City's Chelsea
Piers, confirmed that clients needn't fear for their comfort,
either. The yacht is exceptionally well appointed, with glitzy
bathrooms attached to every bedroom, satellite TVs and telephones
scattered about the living quarters like coasters. &QL;

   The decor is Beverly Hills contemporary, with surfaces covered
in natural fibers, mirrors, Hatteras' signature blonde-maple
paneling _ or, in the case of the galley counters, granite. An
inflatable outboard runabout and a Sea-Doo personal watercraft
grace the rear deck. &QL;

   ``In short, everything is included except food and fuel,'' said
Ralph Vick, the managing director of Yachtscape, who earned his
spurs indulging the whims of the well-heeled while working for the
Ritz-Carlton hotel chain.  &QL;

   Of course, the three owners of Courageous will be masters of
their domain only for discrete periods of the year. But management
will swim the last lap to minimize the sense of sharing. &UR;

   &LR;  Each owner will have separate sets of bed and bath linens.
Each owner's clothes and accessories will be stored between
cruises. Yachtscape is even prepared to juggle crews among boats if
a particular owner finds that the chemistry with the help is wrong.

   Kenneth Cancellara, the general counsel of Biovail, is ``98
percent sure'' he will buy a share of Courageous and expects to use
the boat with friends and family. Melnyk, who is close to signing
on for his own piece of the yacht, will probably mix business with
pleasure.

   But Sands, the investment banker, sees the boat primarily as a
capitalist tool. ``We're constantly entertaining, bringing together
securities issuers and institutional buyers,'' he said.

   Indeed, Jacobs envisions a big corporate market for share
ownership, with buyers using cruises to reward star employees and
stroke clients. ``A yacht cruise is the ultimate perk,'' he said.

   And what if the partial ownership experience sours _ or if an
owner decides to renounce his wealth and enter a monastery?
Yachtscape stands ready to buy back shares for half the purchase
price after 35 months. Probably more relevant, it will serve as a
broker, finding buyers for orphaned shares for a predetermined
commission. &QL;

   Jacobs does not expect it to come to that very often. Indeed, he
is projecting sales of an extra 50 yachts a year _ Hatteras now
builds about 100 _ to satisfy the new market. Some may be specially
equipped for fishing, while others may tap into the lavish
fantasies of latter-day King Farouks.

   What is the biggest boat he is prepared to sell in pieces? If
the demand is there, Jacobs said, Hatteras can provide 130-footers.
The tentative price is $3 million for each of three shares, plus
$455,000 annual maintenance. The line forms to the right.
',
			body: '


  
 (Attn: N.Y., Canada)   (af)  
 By PETER PASSELL   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; `` &LR; The two best days with a yacht are the day you buy it and
the day you sell it,'' lamented Steven Sands, the co-chairman of
Sands Brothers, a New York investment bank. &QL;

   Eugene Melnyk, the chairman of Biovail Pharmaceuticals in
Toronto, shares Sands' ambivalence. ``Owning a big boat,'' he
groused, ``is like owning a second business.''

   But help for both, and for others who can live neither with
their yachts nor without them, may be on the way. And it is coming
from an unlikely source: Irwin L. Jacobs, the 1980s corporate
raider known as ``Irv the Liquidator'' for his habit of acquiring
ailing companies and playing musical chairs with the assets.

   Well, perhaps it is not so unlikely. When the game ended,
Jacobs' portfolio included a dozen boat manufacturers, including
Hatteras, the high-end yacht maker in New Bern, N.C. With fewer
opportunities for slicing and dicing corporations, he put his
restless mind to marketing their products _ notably, the
million-dollar-plus behemoths turned out by Hatteras.

   ``When I asked people at boat shows why they didn't own
yachts,'' Jacobs explained, ``price was an issue, but so was the
hassle factor.''

   Never one to run with the crowd _ he once installed a
delicatessen in a boat showroom in Minnesota to increase foot
traffic _ Jacobs went looking for an unconventional solution to
both problems.

   Hardly anybody wants to spend more than a few months a year
aboard a yacht, he reasoned. And hardly anybody with realistic
aspirations of owning an ocean-going trophy has the time or
inclination to tend to the details of keeping it provisioned and
shipshape. &QL;

   The solution, perhaps inspired by the latest fashion in sales of
private jets: Yacht-scape, a partial-ownership program in which
access to a super-luxe, fully equipped Hatteras yacht is divided
into thirds, while a management company handles everything from
providing the crews to catering the cocktail parties to finding the
perfect beach for sunbathing in the buff.

   Indeed, the managers' job is part mundane maintenance, part
European-style concierge service in which no client's wish is
beyond reach. &UR;

   &LR;  ``We're not just selling a boat; we're selling a life style,''
said Jacobs, testing his sales pitch. &QL;

   Yachtscape's first two fiberglass beauties from Hatteras, the
74-foot Courageous with five bedrooms and the 65-foot Vigilant with
four, are now on the block. Each of the three shares in the
Courageous costs $1 million, or a third of what a single owner
would pay for the boat. &UR;

   &LR;  For this, plus an annual fee of $259,000, each part-owner is
entitled to six 14-day cruises annually, which would keep the boat
in use a total of 36 weeks a year.

   The remaining 113 days are reserved for maintenance,
weather-related down time and the scheduling convenience of the
owners. With this many days of slack, potential conflicts over the
use of the yacht at holidays should be minimized, Jacobs says.

   Paying operating fees that are more than $3,000 a day, the
owners of Courageous will presumably expect a lot, and Yachtscape
aims to exceed their expectations. Everything needed to operate the
boat _ a crew of two and back-up personnel, insurance, dockage fees
and full maintenance _ is included. &UR;

   &LR;  ``If a critical part breaks while the boat is cruising the
coast of Siberia, we'll have a replacement there within 24 hours,''
Jacobs said.

   A tour of Courageous, docked recently at New York City's Chelsea
Piers, confirmed that clients needn't fear for their comfort,
either. The yacht is exceptionally well appointed, with glitzy
bathrooms attached to every bedroom, satellite TVs and telephones
scattered about the living quarters like coasters. &QL;

   The decor is Beverly Hills contemporary, with surfaces covered
in natural fibers, mirrors, Hatteras' signature blonde-maple
paneling _ or, in the case of the galley counters, granite. An
inflatable outboard runabout and a Sea-Doo personal watercraft
grace the rear deck. &QL;

   ``In short, everything is included except food and fuel,'' said
Ralph Vick, the managing director of Yachtscape, who earned his
spurs indulging the whims of the well-heeled while working for the
Ritz-Carlton hotel chain.  &QL;

   Of course, the three owners of Courageous will be masters of
their domain only for discrete periods of the year. But management
will swim the last lap to minimize the sense of sharing. &UR;

   &LR;  Each owner will have separate sets of bed and bath linens.
Each owner's clothes and accessories will be stored between
cruises. Yachtscape is even prepared to juggle crews among boats if
a particular owner finds that the chemistry with the help is wrong.

   Kenneth Cancellara, the general counsel of Biovail, is ``98
percent sure'' he will buy a share of Courageous and expects to use
the boat with friends and family. Melnyk, who is close to signing
on for his own piece of the yacht, will probably mix business with
pleasure.

   But Sands, the investment banker, sees the boat primarily as a
capitalist tool. ``We're constantly entertaining, bringing together
securities issuers and institutional buyers,'' he said.

   Indeed, Jacobs envisions a big corporate market for share
ownership, with buyers using cruises to reward star employees and
stroke clients. ``A yacht cruise is the ultimate perk,'' he said.

   And what if the partial ownership experience sours _ or if an
owner decides to renounce his wealth and enter a monastery?
Yachtscape stands ready to buy back shares for half the purchase
price after 35 months. Probably more relevant, it will serve as a
broker, finding buyers for orphaned shares for a predetermined
commission. &QL;

   Jacobs does not expect it to come to that very often. Indeed, he
is projecting sales of an extra 50 yachts a year _ Hatteras now
builds about 100 _ to satisfy the new market. Some may be specially
equipped for fishing, while others may tap into the lavish
fantasies of latter-day King Farouks.

   What is the biggest boat he is prepared to sell in pieces? If
the demand is there, Jacobs said, Hatteras can provide 130-footers.
The tentative price is $3 million for each of three shares, plus
$455,000 annual maintenance. The line forms to the right.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0414 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:47 ',
			header: '
A5602 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NJ-RESTRICTED-PARK-48     06-11 0611
',
			slug: ' BC-NJ-RESTRICTED-PARK-485&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
JUDGE RULES AGAINST LAW RESTRICTING PARK USE 
',
			trailer: '
   A state Superior Court judge in Paterson, N.J., ruled Thursday
that an ordinance in a Passaic County borough that limits the use
of a public park to residents was unconstitutional, a ruling that
could affect other cases involving who can use public spaces.

   The case involves a woman from a neighboring borough who was
issued a summons in 1993 because her children used the playground
at Roe Street Field in the borough of Haledon. A borough ordinance
limits the use of its parks to residents.

   The woman, Hwilda Barkawi, a native of Syria who was wearing an
Arab headdress while at the park, was ordered by the police to
leave, after a neighbor of the park had complained of her presence,
said Penny Venetis, one of the lawyers who represented Mrs.
Barkawi. When she returned to the park the next day, Mrs. Barkawi,
who lives in Prospect Park, received a summons. A court later fined
her $200.

   In her ruling Thursday, Judge Margaret McVeigh said that the
borough ordinance violated the First and Fourth Amendments of the
Constitution, and that parks help newcomers become part of the
country by ensuring that there are public places where people can
intermingle. ``At any one time all of us were outsiders,'' the
judge said.

   The judge also said that the police had no constitutional means
to determine who was a resident. ``Residents come in all shapes,
sizes and colors,'' she said.

   Ms. Venetis of the Constitutional Litigation Clinic of the
Rutgers Law School in Newark, N.J., which assisted the American
Civil Liberties Union in the case, said Thursday, ``What the court
is saying is you can't randomly stop people and ask for an ID. You
have to have proof that they are breaking the law. You can't
discern that by looking at someone.''

   John Segreto, the lawyer for Haledon, said the borough would
wait until it received a written decision before deciding whether
to appeal.

   Mayor James Van Sickle of Haledon did not return phone messages
left at his home. In a published report after the lawsuit was filed
in 1996, Van Sickle said that the park was maintained by local
taxpayers and that therefore the borough had a right to restrict
the park to residents.

   ``We feel like we have a right to our own property,'' he said at
the time.

   Ms. Venetis said that this is the first such ruling in New
Jersey over public access and the second in the United States.
About 10 years ago, a judge struck down a similar ordinance in
Michigan. In Connecticut, a state Superior Court judge in Stamford
is expected to rule soon after a trial this spring over nonresident
access to Greenwich Point Park.

   ``I think this ruling will have a very significant impact,'' Ms.
Venetis said, noting that at least 30 municipalities in New Jersey
restrict access to their parks. She said that although the ruling
only affected Haledon, judges could be influenced by it when
considering similar cases.

   John Meerbergen, a lawyer who helped defend Greenwich, said the
New Jersey ruling had nothing to do with the Greenwich case.

   ``You have to look at whether the park in New Jersey was a
forum,'' he said, ``and in the evidence presented in our case,
Greenwich Point was utilized as a beach and was not necessarily a
public forum.''

   Ms. Venetis said Mrs. Barkawi was delighted with the ruling.

   ``She's not on any sort of mission,'' Ms. Venetis said. ``She
just wants to use the park.''
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: Conn.)  (lb) 
 By JAMES SCHEMBARI   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   A state Superior Court judge in Paterson, N.J., ruled Thursday
that an ordinance in a Passaic County borough that limits the use
of a public park to residents was unconstitutional, a ruling that
could affect other cases involving who can use public spaces.

   The case involves a woman from a neighboring borough who was
issued a summons in 1993 because her children used the playground
at Roe Street Field in the borough of Haledon. A borough ordinance
limits the use of its parks to residents.

   The woman, Hwilda Barkawi, a native of Syria who was wearing an
Arab headdress while at the park, was ordered by the police to
leave, after a neighbor of the park had complained of her presence,
said Penny Venetis, one of the lawyers who represented Mrs.
Barkawi. When she returned to the park the next day, Mrs. Barkawi,
who lives in Prospect Park, received a summons. A court later fined
her $200.

   In her ruling Thursday, Judge Margaret McVeigh said that the
borough ordinance violated the First and Fourth Amendments of the
Constitution, and that parks help newcomers become part of the
country by ensuring that there are public places where people can
intermingle. ``At any one time all of us were outsiders,'' the
judge said.

   The judge also said that the police had no constitutional means
to determine who was a resident. ``Residents come in all shapes,
sizes and colors,'' she said.

   Ms. Venetis of the Constitutional Litigation Clinic of the
Rutgers Law School in Newark, N.J., which assisted the American
Civil Liberties Union in the case, said Thursday, ``What the court
is saying is you can't randomly stop people and ask for an ID. You
have to have proof that they are breaking the law. You can't
discern that by looking at someone.''

   John Segreto, the lawyer for Haledon, said the borough would
wait until it received a written decision before deciding whether
to appeal.

   Mayor James Van Sickle of Haledon did not return phone messages
left at his home. In a published report after the lawsuit was filed
in 1996, Van Sickle said that the park was maintained by local
taxpayers and that therefore the borough had a right to restrict
the park to residents.

   ``We feel like we have a right to our own property,'' he said at
the time.

   Ms. Venetis said that this is the first such ruling in New
Jersey over public access and the second in the United States.
About 10 years ago, a judge struck down a similar ordinance in
Michigan. In Connecticut, a state Superior Court judge in Stamford
is expected to rule soon after a trial this spring over nonresident
access to Greenwich Point Park.

   ``I think this ruling will have a very significant impact,'' Ms.
Venetis said, noting that at least 30 municipalities in New Jersey
restrict access to their parks. She said that although the ruling
only affected Haledon, judges could be influenced by it when
considering similar cases.

   John Meerbergen, a lawyer who helped defend Greenwich, said the
New Jersey ruling had nothing to do with the Greenwich case.

   ``You have to look at whether the park in New Jersey was a
forum,'' he said, ``and in the evidence presented in our case,
Greenwich Point was utilized as a beach and was not necessarily a
public forum.''

   Ms. Venetis said Mrs. Barkawi was delighted with the ruling.

   ``She's not on any sort of mission,'' Ms. Venetis said. ``She
just wants to use the park.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0415 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:48 ',
			header: '
A5603 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-LILCO-CATACOSINOS-     06-11 1116
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-LILCO-CATACOSINOS-NYT ',
			headline: '
FLINTY CHIEF EXECUTIVE: WILLIAM JAMES CATACOSINOS 
',
			trailer: '
   If he hadn't devoted the last 14 years to running Long Island's
electrical utility, Dr. William Catacosinos might have had a second
career as a mighty fine poker player.

   Single-minded, flinty, competitive, unbluffable _ that's how
people describe the 68-year-old chairman and chief executive of
Marketspan Corp., the recently hatched corporate offspring of his
erstwhile fiefdom, Long Island Lighting Co., and the Brooklyn Union
Gas holding company.

   ``His nickname is `The Cat' because he's so tenacious. You know,
like a cat is strong, powerful and ready to pounce on its prey,''
said Jack Kulka, a Long Island builder who has been on friendly
terms with Catacosinos (pronounced cat-a-koh-SEE-nos) for 25 years,
even though he now heads a citizens group opposing the utility
merger.

   Former Gov. Mario Cuomo went head to head with Catacosinos over
the terms of a 1988 state bailout for LILCO, which sought to pass a
$4 billion debt for the Shoreham nuclear power plant on to Long
Island electric consumers.

   The governor blinked first.

   ``He's gotten rich by outstaring people at the negotiating
table,'' Cuomo later joked.

   Just how rich is now a matter of hot debate.

   At issue is the $42 million that Catacosinos, as LILCO's
chairman, received when the much-maligned Long Island utility
ceased to exist last month. The size of his compensation package
has come to overshadow just about every other issue on the agenda
of Marketspan, which has plenty to do with a payroll of 8,000
workers and a customer base of 2 million in Staten Island, Brooklyn
and Queens and Nassau and Suffolk counties.

   Gov. George Pataki, who negotiated the state-financed deal that
resulted in the energy merger and LILCO's demise, has fiercely
condemned Catacosinos' golden parachute. So have Long Island
electricity consumers, who have filed three class-action suits
challenging the compensation package.

   But people who know Catocosino, who has been criticized
repeatedly over the years for taking pay raises while LILCO
customers paid the highest electricity rates in the continental
United States, say his deal for a healthy payout should not have
come as a surprise.

   ``He knows how to take politicians to the cleaners, because in
every deal he's negotiated with governors and Albany politicians,
he's come out on top,'' said Wayne Prospect, a former Suffolk
County legislator who is working to undo the LILCO deal. ``It's a
pig-out package.''

   The son of Greek immigrants, Catacosinos boasts the kind of
personal history that makes all-American heroes. William James
Catacosinos grew up in Washington Heights, struggled to learn
English to catch up in school, and absorbed the values of thrift
and enterprise by going to work at age 9, sweeping his father's
Harlem grocery store.

   He made it to New York University and earned a master's degree
in business administration, then a Ph.D. in economics by
simultaneously attending classes and working full time at the
Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island. He insists on the
honorific ``Doctor.''

   ``I learned instinct,'' he once said about his childhood, ``and
I learned to survive.''

   But despite that storybook climb up the ladder of success,
Catacosinos is the man that Long Islanders love to hate.

   First, he took over and quickly became the personification of a
utility that maintained famously rotten relations with its
customers.

   ``We deal with utility issues around the state,'' said Larry
Shapiro, senior attorney for the New York Public Interest Research
Group. ``Nothing comes close to the extreme hatred that Long
Islanders had for LILCO.''

   Second, he developed a reputation for arrogance.

   In 1985, Hurricane Gloria knocked out power for parts of Long
Island for nearly two weeks. Catacosinos was vacationing in Italy
with his wife, Florence, a former airline flight attendant. He
dallied. Long Islanders accused him of lacking feeling. They still
talk about it as if it happened yesterday.

   And finally, Catacosinos succeeded in making money for the
shareholders of LILCO.

   When he assumed the chairmanship in 1984, after serving on
LILCO's board, the company had the astronomically overbudget
Shoreham nuclear power plant on its hands, as well as
well-organized community activists who wanted Shoreham never to
open. It was suffocating in debt and spurned by Wall Street as one
of the country's worst-run utilities.

   It was a daunting job, even for a self-made millionaire like
Catacosinos, a man who credits himself with ``barracuda instinct''
and made his fortune helping to found two companies and selling
them at substantial profits to his bigger competitors.

   At the time, he was 53 years old and talked of the LILCO
challenge with something of a crusader's zeal.

   ``As my wife said to me, if you believe you can help, then you
should do it, because all of us in this life have to give something
back,'' he said in an interview at the time.

   Catacosinos eventually turned LILCO around financially, winning
kudos from Wall Street and his shareholders, but attracting the
enmity of just about everyone else. At first, he dismissed about
1,000 workers _ 20 percent of the workforce _ as well as the
utility's president and three vice presidents. Four years later,
after torturous negotiations with the Cuomo administration, he was
able to transfer to the ratepayers the cost of paying off the
defunct Shoreham plant's debt.

   With every achievement, Catacosinos won a bonus or a pay
increase from a grateful board of directors. The ever-increasing
size of his paycheck became a controversy that dogged him
throughout his years as LILCO chairman and beyond.

   One year Catacosinos briefly won praise by refusing a pay
increase of $50,000 after consumer groups complained. But LILCO
executives apparently recognized that, post-Gloria and
post-Shoreham, their chairman was doomed to draw public hostility
like a lightning rod.

   Catacosinos often said that he had three constituencies _ LILCO
investors, employees and customers. But he didn't always disguise
his impatience with that third group.

   When a controversy broke out in 1993 over disclosures that LILCO
had hired one of his nephews, a former business partner and one of
his sons, William, in high-paying company jobs, the beleaguered
chairman complained that nobody would get upset about such things
at any other company in any other community.

   ``It's unrelenting,'' he told Newsday. ``It never stops.''
',
			body: '


   (sidebar with NY-LILCO)  
 (bl)  
 By SUSAN SACHS   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   If he hadn't devoted the last 14 years to running Long Island's
electrical utility, Dr. William Catacosinos might have had a second
career as a mighty fine poker player.

   Single-minded, flinty, competitive, unbluffable _ that's how
people describe the 68-year-old chairman and chief executive of
Marketspan Corp., the recently hatched corporate offspring of his
erstwhile fiefdom, Long Island Lighting Co., and the Brooklyn Union
Gas holding company.

   ``His nickname is `The Cat' because he's so tenacious. You know,
like a cat is strong, powerful and ready to pounce on its prey,''
said Jack Kulka, a Long Island builder who has been on friendly
terms with Catacosinos (pronounced cat-a-koh-SEE-nos) for 25 years,
even though he now heads a citizens group opposing the utility
merger.

   Former Gov. Mario Cuomo went head to head with Catacosinos over
the terms of a 1988 state bailout for LILCO, which sought to pass a
$4 billion debt for the Shoreham nuclear power plant on to Long
Island electric consumers.

   The governor blinked first.

   ``He's gotten rich by outstaring people at the negotiating
table,'' Cuomo later joked.

   Just how rich is now a matter of hot debate.

   At issue is the $42 million that Catacosinos, as LILCO's
chairman, received when the much-maligned Long Island utility
ceased to exist last month. The size of his compensation package
has come to overshadow just about every other issue on the agenda
of Marketspan, which has plenty to do with a payroll of 8,000
workers and a customer base of 2 million in Staten Island, Brooklyn
and Queens and Nassau and Suffolk counties.

   Gov. George Pataki, who negotiated the state-financed deal that
resulted in the energy merger and LILCO's demise, has fiercely
condemned Catacosinos' golden parachute. So have Long Island
electricity consumers, who have filed three class-action suits
challenging the compensation package.

   But people who know Catocosino, who has been criticized
repeatedly over the years for taking pay raises while LILCO
customers paid the highest electricity rates in the continental
United States, say his deal for a healthy payout should not have
come as a surprise.

   ``He knows how to take politicians to the cleaners, because in
every deal he's negotiated with governors and Albany politicians,
he's come out on top,'' said Wayne Prospect, a former Suffolk
County legislator who is working to undo the LILCO deal. ``It's a
pig-out package.''

   The son of Greek immigrants, Catacosinos boasts the kind of
personal history that makes all-American heroes. William James
Catacosinos grew up in Washington Heights, struggled to learn
English to catch up in school, and absorbed the values of thrift
and enterprise by going to work at age 9, sweeping his father's
Harlem grocery store.

   He made it to New York University and earned a master's degree
in business administration, then a Ph.D. in economics by
simultaneously attending classes and working full time at the
Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island. He insists on the
honorific ``Doctor.''

   ``I learned instinct,'' he once said about his childhood, ``and
I learned to survive.''

   But despite that storybook climb up the ladder of success,
Catacosinos is the man that Long Islanders love to hate.

   First, he took over and quickly became the personification of a
utility that maintained famously rotten relations with its
customers.

   ``We deal with utility issues around the state,'' said Larry
Shapiro, senior attorney for the New York Public Interest Research
Group. ``Nothing comes close to the extreme hatred that Long
Islanders had for LILCO.''

   Second, he developed a reputation for arrogance.

   In 1985, Hurricane Gloria knocked out power for parts of Long
Island for nearly two weeks. Catacosinos was vacationing in Italy
with his wife, Florence, a former airline flight attendant. He
dallied. Long Islanders accused him of lacking feeling. They still
talk about it as if it happened yesterday.

   And finally, Catacosinos succeeded in making money for the
shareholders of LILCO.

   When he assumed the chairmanship in 1984, after serving on
LILCO's board, the company had the astronomically overbudget
Shoreham nuclear power plant on its hands, as well as
well-organized community activists who wanted Shoreham never to
open. It was suffocating in debt and spurned by Wall Street as one
of the country's worst-run utilities.

   It was a daunting job, even for a self-made millionaire like
Catacosinos, a man who credits himself with ``barracuda instinct''
and made his fortune helping to found two companies and selling
them at substantial profits to his bigger competitors.

   At the time, he was 53 years old and talked of the LILCO
challenge with something of a crusader's zeal.

   ``As my wife said to me, if you believe you can help, then you
should do it, because all of us in this life have to give something
back,'' he said in an interview at the time.

   Catacosinos eventually turned LILCO around financially, winning
kudos from Wall Street and his shareholders, but attracting the
enmity of just about everyone else. At first, he dismissed about
1,000 workers _ 20 percent of the workforce _ as well as the
utility's president and three vice presidents. Four years later,
after torturous negotiations with the Cuomo administration, he was
able to transfer to the ratepayers the cost of paying off the
defunct Shoreham plant's debt.

   With every achievement, Catacosinos won a bonus or a pay
increase from a grateful board of directors. The ever-increasing
size of his paycheck became a controversy that dogged him
throughout his years as LILCO chairman and beyond.

   One year Catacosinos briefly won praise by refusing a pay
increase of $50,000 after consumer groups complained. But LILCO
executives apparently recognized that, post-Gloria and
post-Shoreham, their chairman was doomed to draw public hostility
like a lightning rod.

   Catacosinos often said that he had three constituencies _ LILCO
investors, employees and customers. But he didn't always disguise
his impatience with that third group.

   When a controversy broke out in 1993 over disclosures that LILCO
had hired one of his nephews, a former business partner and one of
his sons, William, in high-paying company jobs, the beleaguered
chairman complained that nobody would get upset about such things
at any other company in any other community.

   ``It's unrelenting,'' he told Newsday. ``It never stops.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0416 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:49 ',
			header: '
A5605 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CANTORS-ANNVERSARY-60     06-11 1079
',
			slug: ' BC-CANTORS-ANNVERSARY-600&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
GATHERING TO SING A SONG OF THEIR PAST  
 (JT) 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Worn into the frayed burgundy carpet at the front of
the Eldridge Street Synagogue are two footprints, the marks left by
the succession of cantors who led congregations in prayer from the
time the synagogue was the neighborhood shul of tailors and
peddlers on the late 19th-century Lower East Side.

   Those footprints were a poignant bit of history for the 300
cantors who crowded into the landmark synagogue on Monday, their
collective voices resounding like the voices of 300 Pavarottis. And
history was much on their minds as they gathered this week for the
annual convention of the Cantors Assembly. The organization,
affiliated with Conservative Judaism and the largest of three
American cantorial groups, is celebrating its 50th anniversary this
year.

   The cantors took pleasure reminiscing about the days when
cantors were the stars of the Jewish world and people taking a
break from High Holiday worship would argue the comparative virtues
of Yossele Rosenblatt, Moshe Koussevitzky and Richard Tucker while
their sons compared the centerfield skills of Mickey Mantle, Willie
Mays and Duke Snider.

   In teeming Jewish communities like Borough Park in Brooklyn or
Passaic, N.J., cantors would perform four or five weddings on a
Saturday night. Abraham Shapiro, a retired cantor from Lynbrook,
N.Y., recalled that when the legendary Leibele Waldman confronted
one anxious groom who was about to faint, he took the matter firmly
in hand.

   ``Listen,'' Waldman warned him. ``I got four more to do tonight.
I've got to get out of here.''

   But the convention also comes at a time when cantors have to
grapple with changes in their profession unimagined a generation
ago.

   For one thing, the cantor is increasingly likely to sing in a
soprano. Though female cantors were not given full status in the
Conservative movement until 1987, 40 of the Assembly's 450 members
are women and, more tellingly, women make up half the classes at
the cantorial school of the Jewish Theological Seminary, the
fountainhead of the Conservative movement. In the Reform movement,
women are a sizable majority of trainees. (Orthodox Jews do not
permit women to lead congregational prayers.)

   ``Many of the women who might have become cantors in our days
had to make other career choices,'' said Erica Lippitz, one of the
first two female cantors to graduate from the Jewish Theological
Seminary and now the cantor of Oheb Shalom in South Orange, N.J.
``The years have given us a whole new generation of women who, when
they were teen-agers, could think about the cantorate as a first
profession.''

   Another change in the cantorate is that congregations want their
cantors to do more than sing, to be jacks-of-all-trades, virtually
rabbis with golden voices, all for a salary that averages $70,000
plus benefits. Ms. Lippitz finds some members of the congregation
relying on her to discuss troubling personal issues like divorce.
Marla Rosenfeld Barugel of Congregation B'nai Israel in Rumson,
N.J., a mother of two sons, teaches afternoon Hebrew school,
prepares candidates for the bar and bat mitzvahs, supervises the
Sabbath Torah readers and runs the weekly practices of the choir.

   ``My relationship with my kids is on my day off and over the
phone,'' said Ms. Barugel.

   Stephen Stein, an Akron, Ohio, cantor who is the Assembly's new
executive vice president, said that when congregations want to
economize, cantors _ known in Hebrew as hazzans _ are the ripest
target.

   ``When a congregation looks at its budget and says, `Where can
we slash?' the role of the rabbi is never in question,'' he said.
``They'll say, `Let's go from a full-time cantor to a part-time and
from a part-time to no cantor at all.'''

   But on Monday morning, the profession's problems were far from
the cantors' minds as they took time, jovially, to remember some of
the great cantors of old.

   At a panel discussion at the World Trade Center's Marriott
hotel, they reminisced about the days when Yossele Rosenblatt's
singing in Borough Park's Anshe Sfard or Harlem's Ohab Zedek not
only filled a Kol Nidrei service on Yom Kippur, but an ordinary
Sabbath. So crowded was his synagogue on a Sabbath that tickets
were required, and a gentile Pinkerton guard would let those
without tickets in with the warning, ``You can go in, but don't
pray.''

   The panel discussion was titled ``Renew Our Days as of Old,''
after a verse from Jeremiah chanted when the Torah is returned to
the Ark. But several speakers observed that the old days were not
all that wonderful.

   Cantors earned their bread by working most of the week as
tailors, carpenters and salesmen. They had no job protection and
the first effort to give them some would have merged them with the
butchers' union _ an insult to the famously egotistic profession.
Young Jewish boys were recruited into steppingstone choirs by a
self-styled talent scout named Abe Nadler, who paid them 15 cents
plus carfare for a night's work.

   ``He was not exactly a thin man,'' said Saul Hammerman, a
retired cantor from Baltimore. ``Maybe 450 pounds. That's after Yom
Kippur.''

   Those assembled for the panel discussion said the profession's
status began to change with the creation of the Cantors Assembly in
1948, which backed cantors with a powerful organization. Another
milestone was a 1966 federal tax ruling that determined that
cantors were not just entertainers but clergy members, entitled to
the same benefits and deductions as rabbis and ministers.

   The cantors are also aware that they benefit from a nationwide
scarcity. Many young people do not want to spend the five years in
the Torah, Talmud and music studies required to become a bona fide
cantor.

   At the Eldridge Street Synagogue, just before the afternoon
service, Dr. Ismar Schorsch, the seminary's chancellor, gave the
cantors a kind of pep talk, reminding them that they were the ones
whose reverential and mellifluous voices opened ``the gates of
righteousness'' for worshipers.

   ``They want to feel something holy in their lives, which have
been numbed by the pace of materialistic life in America,'' he said
of the congregations. ``One needs a guide, a source of inspiration.
That comes from the hazzan.''
',
			body: '


   By JOSEPH BERGER    
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Worn into the frayed burgundy carpet at the front of
the Eldridge Street Synagogue are two footprints, the marks left by
the succession of cantors who led congregations in prayer from the
time the synagogue was the neighborhood shul of tailors and
peddlers on the late 19th-century Lower East Side.

   Those footprints were a poignant bit of history for the 300
cantors who crowded into the landmark synagogue on Monday, their
collective voices resounding like the voices of 300 Pavarottis. And
history was much on their minds as they gathered this week for the
annual convention of the Cantors Assembly. The organization,
affiliated with Conservative Judaism and the largest of three
American cantorial groups, is celebrating its 50th anniversary this
year.

   The cantors took pleasure reminiscing about the days when
cantors were the stars of the Jewish world and people taking a
break from High Holiday worship would argue the comparative virtues
of Yossele Rosenblatt, Moshe Koussevitzky and Richard Tucker while
their sons compared the centerfield skills of Mickey Mantle, Willie
Mays and Duke Snider.

   In teeming Jewish communities like Borough Park in Brooklyn or
Passaic, N.J., cantors would perform four or five weddings on a
Saturday night. Abraham Shapiro, a retired cantor from Lynbrook,
N.Y., recalled that when the legendary Leibele Waldman confronted
one anxious groom who was about to faint, he took the matter firmly
in hand.

   ``Listen,'' Waldman warned him. ``I got four more to do tonight.
I've got to get out of here.''

   But the convention also comes at a time when cantors have to
grapple with changes in their profession unimagined a generation
ago.

   For one thing, the cantor is increasingly likely to sing in a
soprano. Though female cantors were not given full status in the
Conservative movement until 1987, 40 of the Assembly's 450 members
are women and, more tellingly, women make up half the classes at
the cantorial school of the Jewish Theological Seminary, the
fountainhead of the Conservative movement. In the Reform movement,
women are a sizable majority of trainees. (Orthodox Jews do not
permit women to lead congregational prayers.)

   ``Many of the women who might have become cantors in our days
had to make other career choices,'' said Erica Lippitz, one of the
first two female cantors to graduate from the Jewish Theological
Seminary and now the cantor of Oheb Shalom in South Orange, N.J.
``The years have given us a whole new generation of women who, when
they were teen-agers, could think about the cantorate as a first
profession.''

   Another change in the cantorate is that congregations want their
cantors to do more than sing, to be jacks-of-all-trades, virtually
rabbis with golden voices, all for a salary that averages $70,000
plus benefits. Ms. Lippitz finds some members of the congregation
relying on her to discuss troubling personal issues like divorce.
Marla Rosenfeld Barugel of Congregation B'nai Israel in Rumson,
N.J., a mother of two sons, teaches afternoon Hebrew school,
prepares candidates for the bar and bat mitzvahs, supervises the
Sabbath Torah readers and runs the weekly practices of the choir.

   ``My relationship with my kids is on my day off and over the
phone,'' said Ms. Barugel.

   Stephen Stein, an Akron, Ohio, cantor who is the Assembly's new
executive vice president, said that when congregations want to
economize, cantors _ known in Hebrew as hazzans _ are the ripest
target.

   ``When a congregation looks at its budget and says, `Where can
we slash?' the role of the rabbi is never in question,'' he said.
``They'll say, `Let's go from a full-time cantor to a part-time and
from a part-time to no cantor at all.'''

   But on Monday morning, the profession's problems were far from
the cantors' minds as they took time, jovially, to remember some of
the great cantors of old.

   At a panel discussion at the World Trade Center's Marriott
hotel, they reminisced about the days when Yossele Rosenblatt's
singing in Borough Park's Anshe Sfard or Harlem's Ohab Zedek not
only filled a Kol Nidrei service on Yom Kippur, but an ordinary
Sabbath. So crowded was his synagogue on a Sabbath that tickets
were required, and a gentile Pinkerton guard would let those
without tickets in with the warning, ``You can go in, but don't
pray.''

   The panel discussion was titled ``Renew Our Days as of Old,''
after a verse from Jeremiah chanted when the Torah is returned to
the Ark. But several speakers observed that the old days were not
all that wonderful.

   Cantors earned their bread by working most of the week as
tailors, carpenters and salesmen. They had no job protection and
the first effort to give them some would have merged them with the
butchers' union _ an insult to the famously egotistic profession.
Young Jewish boys were recruited into steppingstone choirs by a
self-styled talent scout named Abe Nadler, who paid them 15 cents
plus carfare for a night's work.

   ``He was not exactly a thin man,'' said Saul Hammerman, a
retired cantor from Baltimore. ``Maybe 450 pounds. That's after Yom
Kippur.''

   Those assembled for the panel discussion said the profession's
status began to change with the creation of the Cantors Assembly in
1948, which backed cantors with a powerful organization. Another
milestone was a 1966 federal tax ruling that determined that
cantors were not just entertainers but clergy members, entitled to
the same benefits and deductions as rabbis and ministers.

   The cantors are also aware that they benefit from a nationwide
scarcity. Many young people do not want to spend the five years in
the Torah, Talmud and music studies required to become a bona fide
cantor.

   At the Eldridge Street Synagogue, just before the afternoon
service, Dr. Ismar Schorsch, the seminary's chancellor, gave the
cantors a kind of pep talk, reminding them that they were the ones
whose reverential and mellifluous voices opened ``the gates of
righteousness'' for worshipers.

   ``They want to feel something holy in their lives, which have
been numbed by the pace of materialistic life in America,'' he said
of the congregations. ``One needs a guide, a source of inspiration.
That comes from the hazzan.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0417 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:49 ',
			header: '
A5606 &Cx1f; taf-z
u k &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-EDIT-INTERNET-SCHOOLS     06-11 0417
',
			slug: ' BC-EDIT-INTERNET-SCHOOLS-NYT ',
			headline: '
EDITORIAL: KEEP INTERNET FINANCING FOR SCHOOLS 
',
			trailer: '
   The New York Times said in an editorial on Friday, June 12:

   With the Internet becoming increasingly important in commerce
and education, the federal government should be redoubling its
efforts to help disadvantaged communities get online. Instead, some
in Congress want to pull the plug on a modest program that is
critical for thousands of schools and libraries around the nation
that cannot afford to pay for Internet access on their own.

   The ``e-rate'' program, created by the 1996 Telecommunications
Act, provides subsidies to poor schools and libraries to pay for
wiring and telephone costs. The cost of computers, software and
teacher training are not covered. Most of the funding comes from
big long-distance companies that pushed for passage of the act,
which allowed them to pursue new lines of business. Now those
companies are pressuring Congress and the Federal Communications
Commission, which administers the program, to cut the subsidies.

   More than 30,000 schools and libraries have applied for
subsidies totaling $2.02 billion, an amount less than the annual
spending limit of $2.25 billion set by the FCC. So far only $625
million has been collected for the first half of the year. Friday
the FCC is expected to decide whether to collect $1.3 billion in
the second half of the year, as planned. Any significant reduction
would be irresponsible given the needs of schools and libraries.

   The political pressure on the FCC has been intense, with
opponents deploying several different arguments. Congressional
critics warn that e-rate collections will cause long-distance
companies to raise their rates. The carriers, by putting a separate
e-rate charge on telephone bills, are threatening to pass the cost
on to consumers, when in fact they should be absorbing that cost.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich plays to that strategy by labeling the
e-rate subsidy a ``tax.''

   The e-rate program is a public obligation that the carriers
agreed to and are required to finance under the 1996 law because
they stand to reap enormous financial benefits from deregulation.
Access charges that long-distance companies pay to local phone
companies have been cut significantly as a direct result of the
1996 act. Should the FCC decide to trim the program, it will be
capitulating to company greed at the expense of communities all
over the country. &QL;
',
			body: '


  (th) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   The New York Times said in an editorial on Friday, June 12:

   With the Internet becoming increasingly important in commerce
and education, the federal government should be redoubling its
efforts to help disadvantaged communities get online. Instead, some
in Congress want to pull the plug on a modest program that is
critical for thousands of schools and libraries around the nation
that cannot afford to pay for Internet access on their own.

   The ``e-rate'' program, created by the 1996 Telecommunications
Act, provides subsidies to poor schools and libraries to pay for
wiring and telephone costs. The cost of computers, software and
teacher training are not covered. Most of the funding comes from
big long-distance companies that pushed for passage of the act,
which allowed them to pursue new lines of business. Now those
companies are pressuring Congress and the Federal Communications
Commission, which administers the program, to cut the subsidies.

   More than 30,000 schools and libraries have applied for
subsidies totaling $2.02 billion, an amount less than the annual
spending limit of $2.25 billion set by the FCC. So far only $625
million has been collected for the first half of the year. Friday
the FCC is expected to decide whether to collect $1.3 billion in
the second half of the year, as planned. Any significant reduction
would be irresponsible given the needs of schools and libraries.

   The political pressure on the FCC has been intense, with
opponents deploying several different arguments. Congressional
critics warn that e-rate collections will cause long-distance
companies to raise their rates. The carriers, by putting a separate
e-rate charge on telephone bills, are threatening to pass the cost
on to consumers, when in fact they should be absorbing that cost.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich plays to that strategy by labeling the
e-rate subsidy a ``tax.''

   The e-rate program is a public obligation that the carriers
agreed to and are required to finance under the 1996 law because
they stand to reap enormous financial benefits from deregulation.
Access charges that long-distance companies pay to local phone
companies have been cut significantly as a direct result of the
1996 act. Should the FCC decide to trim the program, it will be
capitulating to company greed at the expense of communities all
over the country. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0418 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:49 ',
			header: '
A5607 &Cx1f; taf-z
s f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS-     06-11 0484
',
			slug: ' BC-INVEST-BROKEN-STOCKS-ART-$ADV14-NYT ',
			headline: '
A STUDY FINDS FEW ROSES AMONG THE MARKET THORNS  
 (FOR RELEASE SUNDAY, JUNE 14) 
',
			trailer: '
   It's part of the momentum stock-picking game. What goes up
sharply can plummet on bad news. When it does, many investors bail
out, but bargain hunters jump in, betting that the beaten-down
stock will rise again.

   Claudia E. Mott, director of small-cap research for Prudential
Securities in New York, calls this strategy ``trolling the momentum
trash,'' and it is based on the yard-sale adage that one person's
trash is another's treasure.

   Specifically, the thinking goes, such stocks are punished more
severely than the day's bad news warrants, and therefore a hammered
stock is a good value.

   To determine if this premise holds true, Ms. Mott studied the
performance of 1,500 small-cap and 700 mid-cap companies from 1994
through the first quarter of 1998. She looked for momentum stocks
that outperformed similar-sized peers by at least 10 percent over a
six-month period and then hit a bump _ a negative surprise in
earnings, for example, or a downward revision in earnings
estimates. Then she looked at whether these stocks rebounded well
after the surprise.

   ``The answer I came up with is no, it's a risky strategy,'' Ms.
Mott said. ``The chance of success is low and deteriorates over
time,'' she said, though some people do manage to be successful
with it.

   The Prudential study found that such broken-momentum stocks
lagged behind the broad market indexes for companies their size,
not only over the short term _ the three months after the bad news
_ but also for six and 12 months afterward.

   The study, for example, found that mid-cap stocks that dropped
sharply after a negative earnings surprise lagged behind the S&AMP;P
mid-cap index by an average of 7.98 percent after three months, and
by 15.36 percent after a year.

   Similarly, nearly seven out of 10 small-cap stocks whose trading
volume spiked after a downward revision in earnings estimates
underperformed the Russell 2000 over the next year.

   The duration of the effect surprised William R. Walker, a
portfolio manager at Northwestern Mutual Life in Milwaukee, who
avoids the beaten-down stocks.

   ``I knew that those stocks went to the penalty box, but they
stayed there for a lot longer than I expected,'' he said.

   Ms. Mott said the results were a warning for those tempted to
troll the trash. ``You can find some broken momentum stocks that do
well,'' she said, ``but if you're going to troll, troll carefully:
you might want to use a hook instead of a net.''
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: N.Y., Wis.)   (ART ADV: Graphic showing how companies whacked by a bad earnings
surprises fared in the market will be sent to NYT graphic clients.
Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by calling
212-556-4204 or 1927.)  
 (af)  
 By MICKEY MEECE   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   It's part of the momentum stock-picking game. What goes up
sharply can plummet on bad news. When it does, many investors bail
out, but bargain hunters jump in, betting that the beaten-down
stock will rise again.

   Claudia E. Mott, director of small-cap research for Prudential
Securities in New York, calls this strategy ``trolling the momentum
trash,'' and it is based on the yard-sale adage that one person's
trash is another's treasure.

   Specifically, the thinking goes, such stocks are punished more
severely than the day's bad news warrants, and therefore a hammered
stock is a good value.

   To determine if this premise holds true, Ms. Mott studied the
performance of 1,500 small-cap and 700 mid-cap companies from 1994
through the first quarter of 1998. She looked for momentum stocks
that outperformed similar-sized peers by at least 10 percent over a
six-month period and then hit a bump _ a negative surprise in
earnings, for example, or a downward revision in earnings
estimates. Then she looked at whether these stocks rebounded well
after the surprise.

   ``The answer I came up with is no, it's a risky strategy,'' Ms.
Mott said. ``The chance of success is low and deteriorates over
time,'' she said, though some people do manage to be successful
with it.

   The Prudential study found that such broken-momentum stocks
lagged behind the broad market indexes for companies their size,
not only over the short term _ the three months after the bad news
_ but also for six and 12 months afterward.

   The study, for example, found that mid-cap stocks that dropped
sharply after a negative earnings surprise lagged behind the S&AMP;P
mid-cap index by an average of 7.98 percent after three months, and
by 15.36 percent after a year.

   Similarly, nearly seven out of 10 small-cap stocks whose trading
volume spiked after a downward revision in earnings estimates
underperformed the Russell 2000 over the next year.

   The duration of the effect surprised William R. Walker, a
portfolio manager at Northwestern Mutual Life in Milwaukee, who
avoids the beaten-down stocks.

   ``I knew that those stocks went to the penalty box, but they
stayed there for a lot longer than I expected,'' he said.

   Ms. Mott said the results were a warning for those tempted to
troll the trash. ``You can find some broken momentum stocks that do
well,'' she said, ``but if you're going to troll, troll carefully:
you might want to use a hook instead of a net.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0419 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:50 ',
			header: '
A5608 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NJ-MEGAN'-LAW-NYT &LR;      06-11 0630
',
			slug: ' BC-NJ-MEGAN'-LAW-NYT ',
			headline: '
SCHOOLS GET GUIDELINES ON APPLYING `MEGAN'S LAW' 
',
			trailer: '
   HACKENSACK, N.J. _ New Jersey's attorney general issued revised
guidelines on ``Megan's Law'' Thursday, including the first rules
on school officials' roles in issuing alerts about paroled sex
offenders living or working near schools.

   Although much of the booklet focuses on technical and legal
questions for the state's 21 county prosecutors, it also gives
school superintendents and principals their first detailed guidance
on the legal dos and don'ts of helping law enforcement authorities
carry out the law's notification provisions.

   Attorney General Peter Verniero said the new guidelines were
intended to answer questions that school officials have about the
law and to insure that it is applied uniformly throughout New
Jersey. ``We want to make sure we have one system in place, rather
than 21 in 21 different counties,'' he said.

   The law touched off the nationwide movement for notification
that sex offenders are living in communities, but its three-year
journey through state and Federal courts has left its notification
provisions far more conservative than those enacted by the New
Jersey Legislature in 1994 after Megan Kanka, 7, was raped and
murdered by a neighbor, Jesse Timmendequas, in Hamilton Township.
Timmendequas, a repeat sex offender, was sentenced to death last
June.

   Before the State Supreme Court restricted notifications in 1995,
some offenders classified as the greatest public risks saw their
names and addresses posted on telephone poles, printed in
newspapers and taped to the front doors of town halls.

   To protect the privacy rights and anonymity of paroled
offenders, the 1995 decision limited notifications about the
highest risks to schools; organizations that care for children and
women, and people who live near the offenders' homes or workplaces
and were ``likely to encounter'' the offenders. Only schools and
organizations caring for women and children, and not neighbors, can
be told about offenders whom the county prosecutors classify as
moderate risks of committing a new crime.

   In the cases of both moderate and high risks, school principals
can pass on information about an offender to school employees ``in
a position to observe unauthorized persons'' on or near school
property. These employees include teachers and their assistants,
security workers, bus drivers, coaches, janitors, administrators
and professional support staff. Parents, members of parent-teacher
organizations and high school students can be told only of
high-risk offenders living or working near a school. Parents of
children enrolled from kindergarten through eighth grade can be
informed by notices sent home with the children in a sealed
envelope or through the mail.

   Under the risk-assessment system created by the attorney
general's office after the state Supreme Court's 1995 decision, 2.2
percent of those who have been classified thus far are high risks,
29.3 percent are moderate risks, and 68.5 percent are low risks
who, under the law, do not face any community notification.

   The guidelines define high risks as those who have assaulted,
while armed, at least three victims they did not know; engaged in
some form of sexual penetration, and inflicted lasting or serious
physical injury.

   Examples of moderate risks include neighbors, baby sitters or
coaches who have fondled a child under the child's clothing after
threatening physical harm.

   Examples of low-risk offenders include those who have exposed
themselves, sexually abused a younger sibling or their own child,
fondled a child over his or her clothing or fondled an adult
without use of force.
',
			body: '


   (bl)  
 By ROBERT HANLEY   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   HACKENSACK, N.J. _ New Jersey's attorney general issued revised
guidelines on ``Megan's Law'' Thursday, including the first rules
on school officials' roles in issuing alerts about paroled sex
offenders living or working near schools.

   Although much of the booklet focuses on technical and legal
questions for the state's 21 county prosecutors, it also gives
school superintendents and principals their first detailed guidance
on the legal dos and don'ts of helping law enforcement authorities
carry out the law's notification provisions.

   Attorney General Peter Verniero said the new guidelines were
intended to answer questions that school officials have about the
law and to insure that it is applied uniformly throughout New
Jersey. ``We want to make sure we have one system in place, rather
than 21 in 21 different counties,'' he said.

   The law touched off the nationwide movement for notification
that sex offenders are living in communities, but its three-year
journey through state and Federal courts has left its notification
provisions far more conservative than those enacted by the New
Jersey Legislature in 1994 after Megan Kanka, 7, was raped and
murdered by a neighbor, Jesse Timmendequas, in Hamilton Township.
Timmendequas, a repeat sex offender, was sentenced to death last
June.

   Before the State Supreme Court restricted notifications in 1995,
some offenders classified as the greatest public risks saw their
names and addresses posted on telephone poles, printed in
newspapers and taped to the front doors of town halls.

   To protect the privacy rights and anonymity of paroled
offenders, the 1995 decision limited notifications about the
highest risks to schools; organizations that care for children and
women, and people who live near the offenders' homes or workplaces
and were ``likely to encounter'' the offenders. Only schools and
organizations caring for women and children, and not neighbors, can
be told about offenders whom the county prosecutors classify as
moderate risks of committing a new crime.

   In the cases of both moderate and high risks, school principals
can pass on information about an offender to school employees ``in
a position to observe unauthorized persons'' on or near school
property. These employees include teachers and their assistants,
security workers, bus drivers, coaches, janitors, administrators
and professional support staff. Parents, members of parent-teacher
organizations and high school students can be told only of
high-risk offenders living or working near a school. Parents of
children enrolled from kindergarten through eighth grade can be
informed by notices sent home with the children in a sealed
envelope or through the mail.

   Under the risk-assessment system created by the attorney
general's office after the state Supreme Court's 1995 decision, 2.2
percent of those who have been classified thus far are high risks,
29.3 percent are moderate risks, and 68.5 percent are low risks
who, under the law, do not face any community notification.

   The guidelines define high risks as those who have assaulted,
while armed, at least three victims they did not know; engaged in
some form of sexual penetration, and inflicted lasting or serious
physical injury.

   Examples of moderate risks include neighbors, baby sitters or
coaches who have fondled a child under the child's clothing after
threatening physical harm.

   Examples of low-risk offenders include those who have exposed
themselves, sexually abused a younger sibling or their own child,
fondled a child over his or her clothing or fondled an adult
without use of force.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0420 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:51 ',
			header: '
A5609 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-SWEATSHOP-495&AMP;ADD-     06-11 0630
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-SWEATSHOP-495&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
MAN ACCUSED OF OPERATING SWEATSHOP 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Over the last two years, 100 Chinese immigrants
toiling in a small garment factory in the Sunset Park section of
Brooklyn produced as many as 50,000 pieces of girls' sportswear a
week for a Manhattan-based clothes manufacturer, workers said. They
said they routinely logged 12-hour shifts, seven days a week, and
in a handful of cases they worked 24-hour shifts.

   On Thursday, state Attorney General Dennis Vacco announced the
filing of 31 criminal charges against the general manager of the
factory, Jian Wen Liang, including violation of state minimum-wage
laws, illegally firing employees and failing to pay wages. No
charges were filed against the manufacturer, Street Beat
Sportswear.

   State officials said the case was one of the worst examples of
exploitation of workers in the city's garment industry in recent
years. Lawyers representing the workers said the case illustrates
how labor violations continue in the industry, and how larger
manufacturers like Street Beat avoid direct responsibility for
their subcontractors' working conditions.

   State officials said Liang was arrested Thursday at his home in
the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn and pleaded not guilty in
Brooklyn Criminal Court. His lawyer, Marvin David, did not return
calls requesting comment.

   Gary Lewi, a spokesman for Street Beat, said Thursday that the
manufacturer did not know of any illegal practices in Liang's
factory. He blamed Liang for the problem and said Street Beat would
strengthen the monitoring of its subcontractors.

   ``Our relationship with that contractor will not be resumed,''
Lewi said. ``He clearly violated the law and he clearly violated
the trust of employees and customers.''

   But on Thursday night, Clifford Atlas, a lawyer representing
Street Beat, said it had not been proved that Liang engaged in
anything illegal. If he did, Atlas said, Street Beat was unaware of
the illegal activity and was in no way responsible for it.

   Ken Kimmerling, a lawyer with the Asian American Legal Defense
and Education Fund, called Street Beat's denials typical of the
industry. ``They had people in those factories every day,'' he
said. ``They had to know that these conditions existed.''

   In April, Kimmerling's group filed a civil lawsuit in U.S.
District Court in Brooklyn against Street Beat and Liang. The suit,
filed on behalf of eight workers who had been hired, seeks to have
the factory owner and Street Beat held equally responsible for the
treatment of workers and demands $280,000 in back wages and
damages.

   At a news conference with state officials Thursday, factory
employees said they routinely worked seven days a week and were not
paid overtime. A female worker recalled orders for Street Beat
goods arriving on Monday and workers toiling as long as necessary _
including through the night _ to fill the orders by Tuesday. A
49-year-old man from Canton, China, said there was ``no human
kindness'' in American factories.

   David Corvette, a spokesman for the attorney general's office,
said Liang faces up to two years in prison and a $150,000 fine if
he is convicted of failing to pay wages. He also faces three months
in prison and a $500 fine if he is convicted of failing to pay New
York's minimum wage.

   Corvette said the state has stepped up its campaign against
sweatshop owners, with the number of cases prosecuted by the state
rising to 69 in 1997 from 26 in 1994. State investigators are
currently handling 26 sweatshop prosecutions, he said, involving
250 workers owed roughly $500,000 in wages.
',
			body: '


  (lb) 
 By DAVID ROHDE   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Over the last two years, 100 Chinese immigrants
toiling in a small garment factory in the Sunset Park section of
Brooklyn produced as many as 50,000 pieces of girls' sportswear a
week for a Manhattan-based clothes manufacturer, workers said. They
said they routinely logged 12-hour shifts, seven days a week, and
in a handful of cases they worked 24-hour shifts.

   On Thursday, state Attorney General Dennis Vacco announced the
filing of 31 criminal charges against the general manager of the
factory, Jian Wen Liang, including violation of state minimum-wage
laws, illegally firing employees and failing to pay wages. No
charges were filed against the manufacturer, Street Beat
Sportswear.

   State officials said the case was one of the worst examples of
exploitation of workers in the city's garment industry in recent
years. Lawyers representing the workers said the case illustrates
how labor violations continue in the industry, and how larger
manufacturers like Street Beat avoid direct responsibility for
their subcontractors' working conditions.

   State officials said Liang was arrested Thursday at his home in
the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn and pleaded not guilty in
Brooklyn Criminal Court. His lawyer, Marvin David, did not return
calls requesting comment.

   Gary Lewi, a spokesman for Street Beat, said Thursday that the
manufacturer did not know of any illegal practices in Liang's
factory. He blamed Liang for the problem and said Street Beat would
strengthen the monitoring of its subcontractors.

   ``Our relationship with that contractor will not be resumed,''
Lewi said. ``He clearly violated the law and he clearly violated
the trust of employees and customers.''

   But on Thursday night, Clifford Atlas, a lawyer representing
Street Beat, said it had not been proved that Liang engaged in
anything illegal. If he did, Atlas said, Street Beat was unaware of
the illegal activity and was in no way responsible for it.

   Ken Kimmerling, a lawyer with the Asian American Legal Defense
and Education Fund, called Street Beat's denials typical of the
industry. ``They had people in those factories every day,'' he
said. ``They had to know that these conditions existed.''

   In April, Kimmerling's group filed a civil lawsuit in U.S.
District Court in Brooklyn against Street Beat and Liang. The suit,
filed on behalf of eight workers who had been hired, seeks to have
the factory owner and Street Beat held equally responsible for the
treatment of workers and demands $280,000 in back wages and
damages.

   At a news conference with state officials Thursday, factory
employees said they routinely worked seven days a week and were not
paid overtime. A female worker recalled orders for Street Beat
goods arriving on Monday and workers toiling as long as necessary _
including through the night _ to fill the orders by Tuesday. A
49-year-old man from Canton, China, said there was ``no human
kindness'' in American factories.

   David Corvette, a spokesman for the attorney general's office,
said Liang faces up to two years in prison and a $150,000 fine if
he is convicted of failing to pay wages. He also faces three months
in prison and a $500 fine if he is convicted of failing to pay New
York's minimum wage.

   Corvette said the state has stepped up its campaign against
sweatshop owners, with the number of cases prosecuted by the state
rising to 69 in 1997 from 26 in 1994. State investigators are
currently handling 26 sweatshop prosecutions, he said, involving
250 workers owed roughly $500,000 in wages.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0421 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:52 ',
			header: '
A5611 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-SOC--WORLDCUP-HNS &LR;      06-11 0775
',
			slug: ' BC-SOC--WORLD ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; By JOHN P. LOPEZ &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
BORDEAUX, France _ He was the last player to touch the ball in the
1994 World Cup final, but that's when Roberto Baggio's superstar
status sailed high and wide over the crossbar.

   It was then when Baggio's fate began twisting in the wind, much
like his potential game-saving penalty shot did in the title game
against Brazil four years ago. He was Italy's hero gone bad. He
melted hearts, then crushed them.

   His reign as ``the Divine Ponytail,'' as Italy's legion of fans
called him, was clipped, just like the revered ponytail that once
bounced to the beat of his marvelous talent.

   ``The way the last Cup ended was horrible for me,'' Baggio said
after Thursday's 2-2 draw with Chile.

   It ended when Baggio missed the shot that could have led to the
World Cup. Instead, Brazil won and went on to roar some more;
Baggio's career began spiraling downward.

   But Thursday afternoon at a rainy, raucous Stade Lescure, there
was Italy's 1998 World Cup fate on the brink of suffering a more
cruel, more sudden crash thanks to the wizardry of Chile's Marcelo
Salas, who had his team leading by a goal in the final moments.

   There was Baggio, his hair closely cropped, his speed a shade
slower and his status not nearly what it was. Baggio was something
of an afterthought to even make this Italian team because of his
struggles, yet he made the starting lineup and at the most pivotal
moment of Thursday's game stood 12 meters in front of the net
facing another penalty kick.

   ``I could tell you that 1994 didn't cross my mind,'' Baggio
said, ``but how could that be anything but a lie? Yes, I thought
about it.''

   The fickle fans of the Azzurri, nervous throughout the day
because of the inspired play of the Chileans, were thinking about
1994, too. As Baggio set the ball on the mark and lined up his
shot, the Italian fans broke into rounds of whistles and jeers.

   The stakes were obvious. Only five minutes were left in
regulation. A first-game loss and the Italians' road to the second
round would become as ramshackle as Baggio's career has been since
1994.

   ``I heard the noise,'' he said. ``It didn't bother me.''

   Baggio earned the penalty kick when he worked the ball into the
Chilean penalty area. He tried a crossing pass, but the ball hit
the hand of defender Ronald Fuentes. By rule, when a hand-ball is
called in the box, it can be a penalty kick. But the call by
referee Lucian Bouchardeau of Nigeria proved controversial,
considering the penalty-shot ruling can be overturned if the play
is considered inadvertent and did not lead to an advantage.
Clearly, this hand-ball was inadvertent.

   ``I told myself, `Put it into the net this time,''' Baggio said.

   And he did, squeezing the shot past keeper Nelson Tapia, who
guessed correctly on the direction of Baggio's shot but could not
get a hand on the kick into the left side of the net. The goal
evened the game at 2, saving the day for Italy and resurrecting the
glory days for Baggio.

   ``I felt that I could contribute to this team, and I have,''
said Baggio, who hadn't played for the national team in three years
before Thursday because of his difficulties scoring and several
injuries. ``It's a relief to be back in the jersey and back at the
World Cup.''

   The biggest relief might have been for Italian coach Cesare
Maldini, whose team was outplayed most of the day. Salas, a rising
star who proved his worth with a pair of goals, confounded Italy's
defense on nearly every possession.

   After Italy took a 1-0 lead in the 10th minute on a strong goal
by Christian Vieri off a Baggio assist, Chile began forcing things
into the middle of the field, where Salas and teammate Ivan
Zamorano are at their best.

   Zamorano assisted on Salas' first goal, in first-half extra
time, when he headed a corner kick toward Salas, who volleyed it
in. Five minutes into the second half, Salas was the one heading
the ball, climbing over a pair of Italian defenders and sticking in
a cross from Pedro Reyes.

   As the huge traveling contingent of Chilean fans began
celebrating the potential upset, all the Italians could do was
force the action and hope for a stroke of good fortune.

   ``We knew the first game would be difficult,'' Baggio said. ``We
fell behind and took risks. We had to take risks. There was no
other choice. Then, there was the penalty.''

   There was Baggio kicking his turbulent past four years into the
back of the net.
',
			body: '

 CUP-HNS  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
Italy's Baggio buries woes 
of '94 in back of Chile's net

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; By JOHN P. LOPEZ &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
BORDEAUX, France _ He was the last player to touch the ball in the
1994 World Cup final, but that's when Roberto Baggio's superstar
status sailed high and wide over the crossbar.

   It was then when Baggio's fate began twisting in the wind, much
like his potential game-saving penalty shot did in the title game
against Brazil four years ago. He was Italy's hero gone bad. He
melted hearts, then crushed them.

   His reign as ``the Divine Ponytail,'' as Italy's legion of fans
called him, was clipped, just like the revered ponytail that once
bounced to the beat of his marvelous talent.

   ``The way the last Cup ended was horrible for me,'' Baggio said
after Thursday's 2-2 draw with Chile.

   It ended when Baggio missed the shot that could have led to the
World Cup. Instead, Brazil won and went on to roar some more;
Baggio's career began spiraling downward.

   But Thursday afternoon at a rainy, raucous Stade Lescure, there
was Italy's 1998 World Cup fate on the brink of suffering a more
cruel, more sudden crash thanks to the wizardry of Chile's Marcelo
Salas, who had his team leading by a goal in the final moments.

   There was Baggio, his hair closely cropped, his speed a shade
slower and his status not nearly what it was. Baggio was something
of an afterthought to even make this Italian team because of his
struggles, yet he made the starting lineup and at the most pivotal
moment of Thursday's game stood 12 meters in front of the net
facing another penalty kick.

   ``I could tell you that 1994 didn't cross my mind,'' Baggio
said, ``but how could that be anything but a lie? Yes, I thought
about it.''

   The fickle fans of the Azzurri, nervous throughout the day
because of the inspired play of the Chileans, were thinking about
1994, too. As Baggio set the ball on the mark and lined up his
shot, the Italian fans broke into rounds of whistles and jeers.

   The stakes were obvious. Only five minutes were left in
regulation. A first-game loss and the Italians' road to the second
round would become as ramshackle as Baggio's career has been since
1994.

   ``I heard the noise,'' he said. ``It didn't bother me.''

   Baggio earned the penalty kick when he worked the ball into the
Chilean penalty area. He tried a crossing pass, but the ball hit
the hand of defender Ronald Fuentes. By rule, when a hand-ball is
called in the box, it can be a penalty kick. But the call by
referee Lucian Bouchardeau of Nigeria proved controversial,
considering the penalty-shot ruling can be overturned if the play
is considered inadvertent and did not lead to an advantage.
Clearly, this hand-ball was inadvertent.

   ``I told myself, `Put it into the net this time,''' Baggio said.

   And he did, squeezing the shot past keeper Nelson Tapia, who
guessed correctly on the direction of Baggio's shot but could not
get a hand on the kick into the left side of the net. The goal
evened the game at 2, saving the day for Italy and resurrecting the
glory days for Baggio.

   ``I felt that I could contribute to this team, and I have,''
said Baggio, who hadn't played for the national team in three years
before Thursday because of his difficulties scoring and several
injuries. ``It's a relief to be back in the jersey and back at the
World Cup.''

   The biggest relief might have been for Italian coach Cesare
Maldini, whose team was outplayed most of the day. Salas, a rising
star who proved his worth with a pair of goals, confounded Italy's
defense on nearly every possession.

   After Italy took a 1-0 lead in the 10th minute on a strong goal
by Christian Vieri off a Baggio assist, Chile began forcing things
into the middle of the field, where Salas and teammate Ivan
Zamorano are at their best.

   Zamorano assisted on Salas' first goal, in first-half extra
time, when he headed a corner kick toward Salas, who volleyed it
in. Five minutes into the second half, Salas was the one heading
the ball, climbing over a pair of Italian defenders and sticking in
a cross from Pedro Reyes.

   As the huge traveling contingent of Chilean fans began
celebrating the potential upset, all the Italians could do was
force the action and hope for a stroke of good fortune.

   ``We knew the first game would be difficult,'' Baggio said. ``We
fell behind and took risks. We had to take risks. There was no
other choice. Then, there was the penalty.''

   There was Baggio kicking his turbulent past four years into the
back of the net.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0422 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 22:58 ',
			header: '
A5612 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-OBIT-ENGLISH-NYT &LR;      06-11 0641
',
			slug: ' BC-OBIT-ENGLISH-NYT ',
			headline: '
DAVID ENGLISH, 67, A TOP EDITOR ON FLEET STREET 
',
			trailer: '
   LONDON _ David English, widely considered one of Britain's most
astute journalists, who transformed the struggling Daily Mail into
a highly influential tabloid and redefined Fleet Street standards
for editing and reporting, died June 10 at St. Thomas' Hospital in
London. He was 67 and had suffered a stroke the night before.

   English, known for his love and enthusiasm for the news, was
editor of The Daily Mail for 21 years. An ardent supporter of Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher, he was knighted by her in 1982 and was
to have been made a life peer June 13.

   His disenchantment with Mrs. Thatcher's Conservative Party under
her successor, John Major, was reflected in the relatively friendly
coverage The Daily Mail has more recently given to the Labor Party,
in sharp contrast to the newspaper's historical pro-Conservative
bent. The shift is considered one reason for Labor's return to
power a year ago.

   English had a reputation for ruthlessness and zealous news
coverage that stemmed from his days as a young reporter, when he
once stole mailbags from the state-owned British Rail for an
article about its sloppy security.

   As an editor, he was known for mercilessly censuring
subordinates who did not meet his expectations, but he also could
be extraordinarily patient with young reporters. Under his
leadership The Daily Mail became compulsory reading for Britain's
middle class, and its circulation grew to more than 2 million.

   Englist joined The Daily Mail's parent, Associated Newspapers,
in 1969. He became editor in 1971, and in 1992 he was appointed
overall editor of the newspaper company, which also owns The Mail
on Sunday and The Evening Standard.

   An only child, he was left in the care of his mother and his
maternal grandparents at the age of nine months after the death of
his father, who was an accountant.

   Early on, he developed a fascination with newspapers while
reading the three dailies his grandfather received. He also
developed a flair for business and helped his mother run her
boarding house at Broadstairs in Kent, in southeast England, and
eventually a hotel at Bournemouth, in the southwest.

   Those interests coalesced as he grew older, and he founded a
chain of ``giveaway'' newspapers that became profitable enough for
Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of News Corp., to buy them at a hefty
sum that made English independently wealthy.

   A college dropout, English had started his journalism career as
a copy boy for a local paper, The Bournemouth Evening Echo. His big
breaks came as a foreign correspondent for The Sunday Dispatch,
where he was remembered for breaking a story about Errol Flynn's
sex life. By age 30 he had risen to the prestigious post of
Washington correspondent for The Daily Express, which later named
him chief U.S. correspondent and eventually promoted him to foreign
editor.

   In 1968 he was recruited to be editor of The Daily Sketch, which
was merged with The Daily Mail a few years later. He made his mark
by engineering the paper into a tabloid to serve what he called
``Middle England,'' the sort of silent majority of the British
populace with which he most closely identified. The Daily Mail's
influence grew so prominent that rivals in the broadsheet press,
radio and television referred to its contents as the ``tabloid
agenda.''

   He was highly regarded by the royal family for his efforts to
protect the privacy of Harry and William, the sons of Prince
Charles and Princess Diana, particularly after Diana was killed in
a Paris car crash last September.

   English is survived by his wife of 44 years, Irene, and three
children, Nikki Smith, Amanda Christmas and Neil English.
',
			body: '


   (bl)  
 By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   LONDON _ David English, widely considered one of Britain's most
astute journalists, who transformed the struggling Daily Mail into
a highly influential tabloid and redefined Fleet Street standards
for editing and reporting, died June 10 at St. Thomas' Hospital in
London. He was 67 and had suffered a stroke the night before.

   English, known for his love and enthusiasm for the news, was
editor of The Daily Mail for 21 years. An ardent supporter of Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher, he was knighted by her in 1982 and was
to have been made a life peer June 13.

   His disenchantment with Mrs. Thatcher's Conservative Party under
her successor, John Major, was reflected in the relatively friendly
coverage The Daily Mail has more recently given to the Labor Party,
in sharp contrast to the newspaper's historical pro-Conservative
bent. The shift is considered one reason for Labor's return to
power a year ago.

   English had a reputation for ruthlessness and zealous news
coverage that stemmed from his days as a young reporter, when he
once stole mailbags from the state-owned British Rail for an
article about its sloppy security.

   As an editor, he was known for mercilessly censuring
subordinates who did not meet his expectations, but he also could
be extraordinarily patient with young reporters. Under his
leadership The Daily Mail became compulsory reading for Britain's
middle class, and its circulation grew to more than 2 million.

   Englist joined The Daily Mail's parent, Associated Newspapers,
in 1969. He became editor in 1971, and in 1992 he was appointed
overall editor of the newspaper company, which also owns The Mail
on Sunday and The Evening Standard.

   An only child, he was left in the care of his mother and his
maternal grandparents at the age of nine months after the death of
his father, who was an accountant.

   Early on, he developed a fascination with newspapers while
reading the three dailies his grandfather received. He also
developed a flair for business and helped his mother run her
boarding house at Broadstairs in Kent, in southeast England, and
eventually a hotel at Bournemouth, in the southwest.

   Those interests coalesced as he grew older, and he founded a
chain of ``giveaway'' newspapers that became profitable enough for
Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of News Corp., to buy them at a hefty
sum that made English independently wealthy.

   A college dropout, English had started his journalism career as
a copy boy for a local paper, The Bournemouth Evening Echo. His big
breaks came as a foreign correspondent for The Sunday Dispatch,
where he was remembered for breaking a story about Errol Flynn's
sex life. By age 30 he had risen to the prestigious post of
Washington correspondent for The Daily Express, which later named
him chief U.S. correspondent and eventually promoted him to foreign
editor.

   In 1968 he was recruited to be editor of The Daily Sketch, which
was merged with The Daily Mail a few years later. He made his mark
by engineering the paper into a tabloid to serve what he called
``Middle England,'' the sort of silent majority of the British
populace with which he most closely identified. The Daily Mail's
influence grew so prominent that rivals in the broadsheet press,
radio and television referred to its contents as the ``tabloid
agenda.''

   He was highly regarded by the royal family for his efforts to
protect the privacy of Harry and William, the sons of Prince
Charles and Princess Diana, particularly after Diana was killed in
a Paris car crash last September.

   English is survived by his wife of 44 years, Irene, and three
children, Nikki Smith, Amanda Christmas and Neil English.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0423 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:00 ',
			header: '
A5614 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-CONDO-REAL-785&AMP;ADD     06-11 1005
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-CONDO-REAL-785&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
A NEW YORK CO-OP CONVERTS TO A CONDO 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ Seeking to make apartments in their building more
attractive to prospective purchasers and to ease their own monthly
payments, shareholders in a nine-story co-op at 30 West 90th St.
have converted the building to a condominium. The 47-unit building,
which was converted from a rental to a co-op in 1985, is the first
in New York City to switch from a co-op to a condominium form of
ownership, according to real-estate lawyers.

   The building, between Central Park West and Columbus Avenue,
became a condo in February, after a year and a half of negotiations
among the co-op board, shareholders and the sponsor, Beechmont
Investment Co. of Port Chester, which held the building's $4
million mortgage and owns the remaining 25 unsold apartments.
Rent-stabilized tenants of any of these unsold apartments will
retain their rights to occupy the units.

   An aim of all parties was to encourage sales and restore values
at the 71-year-old building, where no units had been sold in at
least six years.

   ``We were hamstrung by the debt on the property, which was
difficult to refinance because of the high number of units the
sponsor owned,'' said John Kaplan, who was president of the co-op
board during the conversion. He said that with the switch to the
condo form, ``shareholders gained control of their own destiny with
respect to their financing needs.''

   In the three months since sales began, contracts have been
signed for 15 one- and two-bedroom units, which have 550 to 1,000
square feet. Average sale prices are $294 a square foot, or
$250,000 for a 850-square-foot one bedroom, which is competitive
with comparable units in the area, according to the Corcoran Group,
a Manhattan brokerage.

   Because condos, unlike co-ops, do not have underlying mortgages,
unit owners first paid off their building-wide loan, which had an
11 percent interest rate, by assuming their share of that loan. The
sponsor discounted the amount of the loan by 17 percent for each
owner as an incentive to convert.

   The individual co-op share loans on each unit _ which are
similar to mortgages on houses or condominium units _ plus the
proportionate shares of the building-wide mortgage were then
converted to conventional mortgages at 7.5 percent on what now are
condo apartments.

   The result was that while unit owners took on more personal
debt, they were able to reduce their monthly costs by an average of
20 percent, said Kenneth Jacobs, a partner at the Manhattan law
firm of Smith, Buss &AMP; Jacobs, who represented unit owners in the
conversion.

   For example, after the conversion and refinancing, the total
monthly cost, which includes taxes, the mortgage payment and
maintenance fee, on a 750-square-foot apartment on the ninth floor
that had been $2,109 when the building was a co-op was reduced to
$1,630.

   Jacobs called the conversion a ``win-win'' because the sponsor
would be able to sell the units it controls more easily, while
apartment owners not only reduced their monthly costs but gained
``more flexibility in what they can do with their apartments.''

   The West Side building is part of small but growing group of
co-ops nationwide that have changed to condos. Though it is
believed to be the only co-op to make the switch in Manhattan,
where there are 337 condo buildings compared with 1,388 co-ops,
industry professionals say several others are undergoing or
exploring the possibility, including a 197-unit co-op at 401 East
89th St. at First Avenue.

   ``As far as I am aware, this is the first co-op in New York City
to be converted to a condominium,'' said Stuart Saft, chairman of
the Council of New York Co-operatives. The New York state attorney
general's office said that it knew of several co-ops moving through
the conversion process.

   There are differences between the co-op and condo form of
ownership. In co-ops, purchasers own stock in a corporation that
owns their building and the stock entitles them to a proprietary
lease to occupy their apartments. Co-op owners, through the board
of directors they elect, have considerable power in their
buildings, including the ability to reject or accept prospective
buyers.

   In condos, buyers acquire the apartment and an interest in the
common areas. Ownership of a condo can be transferred relatively
simply.

   Condos also are perceived to be easier to market than co-ops and
sell for about 25 percent more on average, said Gary Brynes,
director of the co-op and condo division at the Corcoran Group.

   No one believes that co-ops will lose their predominance in
Manhattan. ``New Yorkers are not about to give up the exclusivity
and ability to control who lives next to them,'' Saft said.

   So getting all shareholders to agree to a conversion is a major
hurdle. There are also the mortgage closing costs involved in
paying off the co-op's mortgage and converting owners' share loans
into mortgage loans. And shareholders as well as the co-op
corporation will be liable to pay income tax on any gain resulting
from the conversion.

   Nonetheless, when a co-op building suffers from high debt and
many unsold apartments, a conversion to the condo format may be
worth the effort.

   Jacobs said 30 West 90th St. was able to address some of the
issues more easily because the sponsor supported the conversion and
discounted each unit holder's share of the building-wide loan. He
said that the three banks providing the mortgages on the condos
also discounted their fees and that in many cases the closing costs
were folded into the loans.

   As for the tax consequences, the corporation expects to use the
net operating losses accumulated over the life of the co-op to
offset any taxable gain generated by the conversion substantially,
said Albert Feuer, the tax lawyer for the corporation.
',
			body: '


  (lb) 
 By RACHELLE GARBARINE   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ Seeking to make apartments in their building more
attractive to prospective purchasers and to ease their own monthly
payments, shareholders in a nine-story co-op at 30 West 90th St.
have converted the building to a condominium. The 47-unit building,
which was converted from a rental to a co-op in 1985, is the first
in New York City to switch from a co-op to a condominium form of
ownership, according to real-estate lawyers.

   The building, between Central Park West and Columbus Avenue,
became a condo in February, after a year and a half of negotiations
among the co-op board, shareholders and the sponsor, Beechmont
Investment Co. of Port Chester, which held the building's $4
million mortgage and owns the remaining 25 unsold apartments.
Rent-stabilized tenants of any of these unsold apartments will
retain their rights to occupy the units.

   An aim of all parties was to encourage sales and restore values
at the 71-year-old building, where no units had been sold in at
least six years.

   ``We were hamstrung by the debt on the property, which was
difficult to refinance because of the high number of units the
sponsor owned,'' said John Kaplan, who was president of the co-op
board during the conversion. He said that with the switch to the
condo form, ``shareholders gained control of their own destiny with
respect to their financing needs.''

   In the three months since sales began, contracts have been
signed for 15 one- and two-bedroom units, which have 550 to 1,000
square feet. Average sale prices are $294 a square foot, or
$250,000 for a 850-square-foot one bedroom, which is competitive
with comparable units in the area, according to the Corcoran Group,
a Manhattan brokerage.

   Because condos, unlike co-ops, do not have underlying mortgages,
unit owners first paid off their building-wide loan, which had an
11 percent interest rate, by assuming their share of that loan. The
sponsor discounted the amount of the loan by 17 percent for each
owner as an incentive to convert.

   The individual co-op share loans on each unit _ which are
similar to mortgages on houses or condominium units _ plus the
proportionate shares of the building-wide mortgage were then
converted to conventional mortgages at 7.5 percent on what now are
condo apartments.

   The result was that while unit owners took on more personal
debt, they were able to reduce their monthly costs by an average of
20 percent, said Kenneth Jacobs, a partner at the Manhattan law
firm of Smith, Buss &AMP; Jacobs, who represented unit owners in the
conversion.

   For example, after the conversion and refinancing, the total
monthly cost, which includes taxes, the mortgage payment and
maintenance fee, on a 750-square-foot apartment on the ninth floor
that had been $2,109 when the building was a co-op was reduced to
$1,630.

   Jacobs called the conversion a ``win-win'' because the sponsor
would be able to sell the units it controls more easily, while
apartment owners not only reduced their monthly costs but gained
``more flexibility in what they can do with their apartments.''

   The West Side building is part of small but growing group of
co-ops nationwide that have changed to condos. Though it is
believed to be the only co-op to make the switch in Manhattan,
where there are 337 condo buildings compared with 1,388 co-ops,
industry professionals say several others are undergoing or
exploring the possibility, including a 197-unit co-op at 401 East
89th St. at First Avenue.

   ``As far as I am aware, this is the first co-op in New York City
to be converted to a condominium,'' said Stuart Saft, chairman of
the Council of New York Co-operatives. The New York state attorney
general's office said that it knew of several co-ops moving through
the conversion process.

   There are differences between the co-op and condo form of
ownership. In co-ops, purchasers own stock in a corporation that
owns their building and the stock entitles them to a proprietary
lease to occupy their apartments. Co-op owners, through the board
of directors they elect, have considerable power in their
buildings, including the ability to reject or accept prospective
buyers.

   In condos, buyers acquire the apartment and an interest in the
common areas. Ownership of a condo can be transferred relatively
simply.

   Condos also are perceived to be easier to market than co-ops and
sell for about 25 percent more on average, said Gary Brynes,
director of the co-op and condo division at the Corcoran Group.

   No one believes that co-ops will lose their predominance in
Manhattan. ``New Yorkers are not about to give up the exclusivity
and ability to control who lives next to them,'' Saft said.

   So getting all shareholders to agree to a conversion is a major
hurdle. There are also the mortgage closing costs involved in
paying off the co-op's mortgage and converting owners' share loans
into mortgage loans. And shareholders as well as the co-op
corporation will be liable to pay income tax on any gain resulting
from the conversion.

   Nonetheless, when a co-op building suffers from high debt and
many unsold apartments, a conversion to the condo format may be
worth the effort.

   Jacobs said 30 West 90th St. was able to address some of the
issues more easily because the sponsor supported the conversion and
discounted each unit holder's share of the building-wide loan. He
said that the three banks providing the mortgages on the condos
also discounted their fees and that in many cases the closing costs
were folded into the loans.

   As for the tax consequences, the corporation expects to use the
net operating losses accumulated over the life of the co-op to
offset any taxable gain generated by the conversion substantially,
said Albert Feuer, the tax lawyer for the corporation.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0424 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:06 ',
			header: '
A5684 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-OBIT-COOKSON-NYT &LR;      06-11 0747
',
			slug: ' BC-OBIT-COOKSON-NYT ',
			headline: '
CATHERINE COOKSON, 91, POPULAR BRITISH NOVELIST 
',
			trailer: '
   Dame Catherine Cookson, a determined dockside waif who spun the
dross of a squalid childhood into gold as one of Britain's most
prolific and best-read novelists, died June 11 at her home in a
Newcastle suburb. She was 91 and the author of more than 90 novels
with a combined distribution of more than 100 million copies.

   There's not much to be said for growing up coal poor in
Tyneside, the industrial banks of the Tyne in northeastern England,
even less for being shamed by an alcoholic mother and never knowing
your father.

   Then again, by the time she was finished, Mrs. Cookson had said
quite a lot about the grim life she knew as a girl and illuminated
in scores of novels, almost all of them set in the same
working-class world she grew up dreaming of escaping.

   British readers have not seemed to be able to get enough of Mrs.
Cookson's gritty tales of family conflict, social despair and the
debilitating effects of deprivation. Mrs. Cookson has not only
regularly accounted for a third of the books circulated by
Britain's lending libraries, but of the top 10 titles on last
year's circulation list, nine were hers.

   Yet Mrs. Cookson would have been hard-pressed to dream up a more
unlikely heroine or a tale as compelling as the story of her own
life.

   Who, after all, would believe that a woman whose childhood
humiliations included frequenting pawn shops, collecting driftwood
from the Tyne, being sexually molested at 7 by her mother's
boyfriend, and making daily runs to the pub to fetch her mother and
tyrannical grandfather pails of beer, would become a successful
novelist?

   Or that a woman whose adult tribulations would include the pain
of four pregnancies ending in miscarriage or stillbirth and a
devastating nervous breakdown would make an emotional breakthrough
at 40, find salvation through writing and end up as Britain's 17th
richest woman, with a fortune estimated at $23 million?

   Even harder to believe is that Mrs. Cookson credited the spark
that saved her life to her persistent belief as a girl that she was
a lady.

   It was a belief, she said, that was fired when an aunt mentioned
that her father, a topic she could never discuss with her imperious
mother, had been a gentleman. And what sort of gentleman would take
his pleasure, then abandon a woman he had got with child? As the
aunt explained, ``he wore an astrakhan collar, and he carried a
silver-mounted walking stick and kid gloves. And, oh yes, he talked
lovely.'' (Mrs. Cookson later speculated that her father had been a
gentleman's footman.)

   The notion that she had been born a lady took a startling turn
when Mrs. Cookson, then known as Katie McMullen, read in a novel
that it was a lady's duty to be educated, which she took to heart,
beginning a lifelong pattern of reading great books.

   Mrs. Cookson found her immediate escape from poverty by working
in laundries, rising to supervisor, saving her money, moving to the
southeastern city of Hastings and opening a rooming house for men.

   One of her lodgers was a shy, intellectual school teacher named
Tom Cookson, and as Mrs. Cookson later told it, it was close to
love at first sight. When she asked him in for coffee after their
first movie date, the two sat up talking until after midnight.
``Now,'' she said, ``whether it was him, or whether it was me who
first leaned to the other I don't know. But we kissed and that was
that.''

   After their marriage, the two were inseparable, but after
experiencing a stillbirth and three miscarriages Mrs. Cookson, who
suffered from a lifelong blood disorder, endured years of suicidal
depression until her husband suggested she try to overcome her
despair by writing.

   Her first book, an autobiographical novel called ``Kate
Hannigan,'' was published in 1950, when she was 44, and Mrs.
Cookson was on her way. Averaging two books a years, she achieved
something of a breakthrough in 1968 with her 19th novel, ``Katie
Mulholland,'' and her autobiography, ``Our Kate.''

   Although none won literary acclaim, a number of her books,
including ``The Black Candle,'' and ``The Velvet Gown,'' were made
into television movies, and Mrs. Cookson, an officer of the British
Empire since 1985, was made a dame, the equivalent of a knight, in
1993.

   Her husband is her only survivor.

   &QL; 
 &QL;
',
			body: '


   (bl)  
 By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr.   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service    

',
			paragraphs: '
   Dame Catherine Cookson, a determined dockside waif who spun the
dross of a squalid childhood into gold as one of Britain's most
prolific and best-read novelists, died June 11 at her home in a
Newcastle suburb. She was 91 and the author of more than 90 novels
with a combined distribution of more than 100 million copies.

   There's not much to be said for growing up coal poor in
Tyneside, the industrial banks of the Tyne in northeastern England,
even less for being shamed by an alcoholic mother and never knowing
your father.

   Then again, by the time she was finished, Mrs. Cookson had said
quite a lot about the grim life she knew as a girl and illuminated
in scores of novels, almost all of them set in the same
working-class world she grew up dreaming of escaping.

   British readers have not seemed to be able to get enough of Mrs.
Cookson's gritty tales of family conflict, social despair and the
debilitating effects of deprivation. Mrs. Cookson has not only
regularly accounted for a third of the books circulated by
Britain's lending libraries, but of the top 10 titles on last
year's circulation list, nine were hers.

   Yet Mrs. Cookson would have been hard-pressed to dream up a more
unlikely heroine or a tale as compelling as the story of her own
life.

   Who, after all, would believe that a woman whose childhood
humiliations included frequenting pawn shops, collecting driftwood
from the Tyne, being sexually molested at 7 by her mother's
boyfriend, and making daily runs to the pub to fetch her mother and
tyrannical grandfather pails of beer, would become a successful
novelist?

   Or that a woman whose adult tribulations would include the pain
of four pregnancies ending in miscarriage or stillbirth and a
devastating nervous breakdown would make an emotional breakthrough
at 40, find salvation through writing and end up as Britain's 17th
richest woman, with a fortune estimated at $23 million?

   Even harder to believe is that Mrs. Cookson credited the spark
that saved her life to her persistent belief as a girl that she was
a lady.

   It was a belief, she said, that was fired when an aunt mentioned
that her father, a topic she could never discuss with her imperious
mother, had been a gentleman. And what sort of gentleman would take
his pleasure, then abandon a woman he had got with child? As the
aunt explained, ``he wore an astrakhan collar, and he carried a
silver-mounted walking stick and kid gloves. And, oh yes, he talked
lovely.'' (Mrs. Cookson later speculated that her father had been a
gentleman's footman.)

   The notion that she had been born a lady took a startling turn
when Mrs. Cookson, then known as Katie McMullen, read in a novel
that it was a lady's duty to be educated, which she took to heart,
beginning a lifelong pattern of reading great books.

   Mrs. Cookson found her immediate escape from poverty by working
in laundries, rising to supervisor, saving her money, moving to the
southeastern city of Hastings and opening a rooming house for men.

   One of her lodgers was a shy, intellectual school teacher named
Tom Cookson, and as Mrs. Cookson later told it, it was close to
love at first sight. When she asked him in for coffee after their
first movie date, the two sat up talking until after midnight.
``Now,'' she said, ``whether it was him, or whether it was me who
first leaned to the other I don't know. But we kissed and that was
that.''

   After their marriage, the two were inseparable, but after
experiencing a stillbirth and three miscarriages Mrs. Cookson, who
suffered from a lifelong blood disorder, endured years of suicidal
depression until her husband suggested she try to overcome her
despair by writing.

   Her first book, an autobiographical novel called ``Kate
Hannigan,'' was published in 1950, when she was 44, and Mrs.
Cookson was on her way. Averaging two books a years, she achieved
something of a breakthrough in 1968 with her 19th novel, ``Katie
Mulholland,'' and her autobiography, ``Our Kate.''

   Although none won literary acclaim, a number of her books,
including ``The Black Candle,'' and ``The Velvet Gown,'' were made
into television movies, and Mrs. Cookson, an officer of the British
Empire since 1985, was made a dame, the equivalent of a knight, in
1993.

   Her husband is her only survivor.

   &QL; 
 &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0425 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:10 ',
			header: '
A5724 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-astroslede-HNS &LR;      06-11 0674
',
			slug: ' BC-astros ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Schedule gives Astros a chance to soar

   &UR; By JOSEPH DUARTE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
CINCINNATI _ What's the difference between the Atlanta Braves and,
say, the Cincinnati Reds?

   ``Nothing,'' Astros third baseman Sean Berry said.

   Which team would you rather face: the New York Yankees or the
expansion Arizona Diamondbacks?

   ``It doesn't matter,'' Berry said.

   When it comes down to it, there is little separation among the
30 teams in baseball _ except a pair of numbers in the won-lost
column.

   With that in mind, after a brutal stretch to start the season,
the schedule-makers have cooked up a feast of the game's lower-tier
clubs for the Astros to devour in the next three weeks.

   First on the menu is a four-game series with the Cincinnati
Reds, beginning tonight at Cinergy Field.

   By the time the July 6-8 All-Star break arrives, the Astros will
have completed a stretch in which nine of their 10 series were
against teams with sub-.500 records. That includes seven games with
the Reds, the last-place team in the National League Central (13
games in back of the Astros).

   The Astros, with five wins in their last six games, also face
St. Louis, Minnesota, Colorado, Arizona, Cleveland and the Chicago
White Sox in the next 3{ weeks. The next eight series are against
opponents a combined 53 games under .500 (199-252).

   AL Central leader Cleveland is the only team above the
break-even mark.

   None of that matters to Berry.

   ``I never think of it that way ever,'' he said of the coming
schedule. ``Once you start thinking that way, these teams will come
up and get you, because in baseball you just never know. When you
think that way, you wait for things to happen instead of making
things happen.''

   After swaying off course momentarily and falling into a
first-place tie with the Chicago Cubs last weekend, the Astros have
moved back in front.

   At 40-24, the club has matched the 1980 team for the best
64-game start in franchise history. The Astros, who are on a pace
to win 101 games, have won five straight and seven of their last
nine to push their division lead to two games.

   Manager Larry Dierker says his team still has not reached its
peak offensively. But at least it has reversed its fortunes of a
year ago _ when the Astros went cold from June 4 until the All-Star
break with a 15-16 mark, a majority of those losses coming in
interleague play.

   Nonetheless, the Astros built a three-game lead in the Central
before finishing the first half of the season one game behind the
Pittsburgh Pirates.

   ``We got through the hard part of our schedule last year before
we started playing Kansas City and Minnesota and some of the other
weaker teams with losing records. We just weren't playing well
then,'' Dierker said. ``We didn't go into a losing streak, but we
actually didn't win as much as we had been earlier against better
teams. Only half is how good the other team is. The other half is,
How good are you? From time to time the team is clicking, and the
other time it is not.''

   Things have clicked enough through the first 10{ weeks of the
season that the Astros have shared or been alone in first place
every day since April 29. They have done so despite a 25-13 surge
by the Cubs.

   Dierker said, ``Every game throughout the year is important. The
one thing that's a plus about the fact we've played well at the
start and the Cubs have played well lately is that we've gained
some separation.

   ``They've had to play unbelievable just to stay in there with
us.''

   Chicago has a schedule much like the Astros'. The Cubs play
Philadelphia (seven games) and Cleveland (two) and have three-game
series with Milwaukee, Detroit, Arizona, Pittsburgh and Kansas
City.

   ``You are going to cool off,'' Dierker said. ``If you win 10 in
a row, it shouldn't necessarily mean you expect to win 10 in a row
again. The difference is whether you go poor or keep going well.''
',
			body: '

 lede-HNS  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  

',
			paragraphs: '
   Schedule gives Astros a chance to soar

   &UR; By JOSEPH DUARTE &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
CINCINNATI _ What's the difference between the Atlanta Braves and,
say, the Cincinnati Reds?

   ``Nothing,'' Astros third baseman Sean Berry said.

   Which team would you rather face: the New York Yankees or the
expansion Arizona Diamondbacks?

   ``It doesn't matter,'' Berry said.

   When it comes down to it, there is little separation among the
30 teams in baseball _ except a pair of numbers in the won-lost
column.

   With that in mind, after a brutal stretch to start the season,
the schedule-makers have cooked up a feast of the game's lower-tier
clubs for the Astros to devour in the next three weeks.

   First on the menu is a four-game series with the Cincinnati
Reds, beginning tonight at Cinergy Field.

   By the time the July 6-8 All-Star break arrives, the Astros will
have completed a stretch in which nine of their 10 series were
against teams with sub-.500 records. That includes seven games with
the Reds, the last-place team in the National League Central (13
games in back of the Astros).

   The Astros, with five wins in their last six games, also face
St. Louis, Minnesota, Colorado, Arizona, Cleveland and the Chicago
White Sox in the next 3{ weeks. The next eight series are against
opponents a combined 53 games under .500 (199-252).

   AL Central leader Cleveland is the only team above the
break-even mark.

   None of that matters to Berry.

   ``I never think of it that way ever,'' he said of the coming
schedule. ``Once you start thinking that way, these teams will come
up and get you, because in baseball you just never know. When you
think that way, you wait for things to happen instead of making
things happen.''

   After swaying off course momentarily and falling into a
first-place tie with the Chicago Cubs last weekend, the Astros have
moved back in front.

   At 40-24, the club has matched the 1980 team for the best
64-game start in franchise history. The Astros, who are on a pace
to win 101 games, have won five straight and seven of their last
nine to push their division lead to two games.

   Manager Larry Dierker says his team still has not reached its
peak offensively. But at least it has reversed its fortunes of a
year ago _ when the Astros went cold from June 4 until the All-Star
break with a 15-16 mark, a majority of those losses coming in
interleague play.

   Nonetheless, the Astros built a three-game lead in the Central
before finishing the first half of the season one game behind the
Pittsburgh Pirates.

   ``We got through the hard part of our schedule last year before
we started playing Kansas City and Minnesota and some of the other
weaker teams with losing records. We just weren't playing well
then,'' Dierker said. ``We didn't go into a losing streak, but we
actually didn't win as much as we had been earlier against better
teams. Only half is how good the other team is. The other half is,
How good are you? From time to time the team is clicking, and the
other time it is not.''

   Things have clicked enough through the first 10{ weeks of the
season that the Astros have shared or been alone in first place
every day since April 29. They have done so despite a 25-13 surge
by the Cubs.

   Dierker said, ``Every game throughout the year is important. The
one thing that's a plus about the fact we've played well at the
start and the Cubs have played well lately is that we've gained
some separation.

   ``They've had to play unbelievable just to stay in there with
us.''

   Chicago has a schedule much like the Astros'. The Cubs play
Philadelphia (seven games) and Cleveland (two) and have three-game
series with Milwaukee, Detroit, Arizona, Pittsburgh and Kansas
City.

   ``You are going to cool off,'' Dierker said. ``If you win 10 in
a row, it shouldn't necessarily mean you expect to win 10 in a row
again. The difference is whether you go poor or keep going well.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0426 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:13 ',
			header: '
A5765 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-RETARDED-SHELTERS-     06-11 0629
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-RETARDED-SHELTERS-460&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
POPULATION OF RETARDED IN SHELTERS IS IN DISPUTE 
',
			trailer: '
   WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. _ One week after 26 retarded adults were
found to be living in homeless shelters and the state claimed that
the problem was confined to Westchester County, a state legislator
produced a list Thursday that he said showed that 138 retarded
adults statewide are living in shelters or are otherwise homeless.

   The list, a document from the state Office of Mental Retardation
and Developmental Disabilities, which was disclosed by Assemblyman
Richard Brodsky, D-Greenburgh, appeared to be an effort to
embarrass Gov. George Pataki and the office at a time when 6,500
retarded adults are on a waiting list for housing.

   Thomas Maul, commissioner of mental retardation and
developmental disabilities, issued a statement sharply attacking
Brodsky for the ``reckless use of outdated and inaccurate
information for purely partisan political reasons.''

   ``If Brodsky had bothered with the facts he would have found
that virtually every one of those cases had been addressed long
ago,'' Maul said. Maul said the undated list was a cumulative
compilation going back to 1993.

   Brodsky insisted that the source who leaked the list to him,
whom he would not identify, said it did in fact give the current
total of homeless retarded adults statewide.

   On the list is the number of adults with IQs of 65 or less who
were reported to be homeless in each of 14 regions of the state. It
was not clear whether the 26 retarded adults discovered to be
homeless in Westchester last week were part of that group. The
remaining 49 are in other areas of the state.

   ``This is a horror story of the worst kind,'' Brodsky said at a
news conference in the Capitol in Albany, where he distributed the
document. ``This is the natural, foreseeable consequence of years
of disinvestment.''

   Told of Maul's remarks, Brodsky said, ``Whether the number is 10
or 138, it's morally unacceptable.''

   Advocates for the retarded say the state is facing a housing
crisis of unusual proportions. Institutions for the retarded have
been shuttered, releasing their residents to communities without
sufficient specialized quarters, these advocates say, while many
elderly and frail parents can no longer take care of their grown
retarded children at home.

   Last week, after Westchester officials disclosed that 26
retarded adults were living in the county's half-dozen shelters,
Deborah Sturm Rausch, a spokeswoman for the office of retardation,
was asked how many retarded people were homeless statewide. She
said the problem was ``isolated'' in Westchester.

   Some employees of the state office were enraged by that
assertion and, through intermediaries, one apparently informed
Brodsky of the list of 138, an advocate for the retarded said.

   Among those at Thursday's news conference was Marc Brandt,
executive director of the New York State Association for Retarded
Children, which operates residences statewide and lobbies state
officials.

   ``Years ago we said this very well could happen,'' he said of
the shortage of housing for the retarded. ``The waiting list is
growing. The option of going into an institution for people with
mental retardation is no longer available, nor should it be.''

   Also at the news conference was Assemblyman James Brennan, D-New
York City, who is chairman of the Assembly Mental Health Committee.
He said that from 1986 to 1994 the state created 13,000 beds for
the retarded. The number of new beds has fallen to 850 during the
three and a half years of the Pataki administration, he said.
',
			body: '


  (lb) 
 By JOSEPH BERGER   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. _ One week after 26 retarded adults were
found to be living in homeless shelters and the state claimed that
the problem was confined to Westchester County, a state legislator
produced a list Thursday that he said showed that 138 retarded
adults statewide are living in shelters or are otherwise homeless.

   The list, a document from the state Office of Mental Retardation
and Developmental Disabilities, which was disclosed by Assemblyman
Richard Brodsky, D-Greenburgh, appeared to be an effort to
embarrass Gov. George Pataki and the office at a time when 6,500
retarded adults are on a waiting list for housing.

   Thomas Maul, commissioner of mental retardation and
developmental disabilities, issued a statement sharply attacking
Brodsky for the ``reckless use of outdated and inaccurate
information for purely partisan political reasons.''

   ``If Brodsky had bothered with the facts he would have found
that virtually every one of those cases had been addressed long
ago,'' Maul said. Maul said the undated list was a cumulative
compilation going back to 1993.

   Brodsky insisted that the source who leaked the list to him,
whom he would not identify, said it did in fact give the current
total of homeless retarded adults statewide.

   On the list is the number of adults with IQs of 65 or less who
were reported to be homeless in each of 14 regions of the state. It
was not clear whether the 26 retarded adults discovered to be
homeless in Westchester last week were part of that group. The
remaining 49 are in other areas of the state.

   ``This is a horror story of the worst kind,'' Brodsky said at a
news conference in the Capitol in Albany, where he distributed the
document. ``This is the natural, foreseeable consequence of years
of disinvestment.''

   Told of Maul's remarks, Brodsky said, ``Whether the number is 10
or 138, it's morally unacceptable.''

   Advocates for the retarded say the state is facing a housing
crisis of unusual proportions. Institutions for the retarded have
been shuttered, releasing their residents to communities without
sufficient specialized quarters, these advocates say, while many
elderly and frail parents can no longer take care of their grown
retarded children at home.

   Last week, after Westchester officials disclosed that 26
retarded adults were living in the county's half-dozen shelters,
Deborah Sturm Rausch, a spokeswoman for the office of retardation,
was asked how many retarded people were homeless statewide. She
said the problem was ``isolated'' in Westchester.

   Some employees of the state office were enraged by that
assertion and, through intermediaries, one apparently informed
Brodsky of the list of 138, an advocate for the retarded said.

   Among those at Thursday's news conference was Marc Brandt,
executive director of the New York State Association for Retarded
Children, which operates residences statewide and lobbies state
officials.

   ``Years ago we said this very well could happen,'' he said of
the shortage of housing for the retarded. ``The waiting list is
growing. The option of going into an institution for people with
mental retardation is no longer available, nor should it be.''

   Also at the news conference was Assemblyman James Brennan, D-New
York City, who is chairman of the Assembly Mental Health Committee.
He said that from 1986 to 1994 the state created 13,000 beds for
the retarded. The number of new beds has fallen to 850 during the
three and a half years of the Pataki administration, he said.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0427 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:13 ',
			header: '
A5767 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-OBIT-POLLOCK-NYT &LR;      06-11 0938
',
			slug: ' BC-OBIT-POLLOCK-NYT ',
			headline: '
MICHAEL L. POLLOCK, 61, AN EXPERT ON EXERCISE 
',
			trailer: '
   Last week, at the annual meeting of the American College of
Sports Medicine in Orlando, Fla., a position paper was released
that was hailed by the organization as ``the cornerstone of aerobic
training, resistance exercise and flexibility for healthy adults.''

   While attending that meeting, Michael L. Pollock of Gainesville,
Fla., a co-author of the paper and perhaps the nation's most
respected expert on how much and how hard adults should exercise,
died last Friday at age 61. He suffered a stroke that afternoon and
died that night, the organization said.

   Pollock published three books and more than 300 articles on
exercise. Barry Franklin, the president-elect of the organization,
the world's pre-eminent sports medicine institution, called him ``a
giant in the field of exercise science, a man largely responsible
for the knowledge base we have today in exercise training and
cardiac rehabilitation.''

   ``Over the last 20 years,'' Franklin said, ``he was probably the
single most important force in getting cardiac rehabilitation
recognized by the medical community as an integral part of
contemporary care. He helped patients help themselves.''

   In a study, Pollock found that heart-transplant patients who did
weight training could prevent their antirejection medication from
reducing bone density. That, in turn, reduced the chances of
brittle bones and stress fractures. He then drew up individual
lifting programs for each transplant patient.

   To colleagues, he was a role model. Dr. Lewis G. Maharam, the
president of the sports-medicine organization's New York chapter,
described Pollock's role this way:

   ``Every patient asks a sports-medicine doctor, `How much
exercise should I do?' Michael Pollock was the one doing the
research to find out. The greatest health problem in the country is
that people aren't exercising. The whole point of his latest paper
was to quantify how much is enough and how to get people exercising
more.''

   In 1978, Pollock headed the American College of Sports
Medicine's committee that formulated its first position paper on
the quality and quantity of exercise. Revisions in 1990 and last
week incorporated further research.

   Since 1986, he had been affiliated with the University of
Florida, where he was a professor of medicine, physiology and
health and human performance and director of the Center of Exercise
Science. Despite arthritis, he took his own advice and exercised
regularly.

   In 1990, he recommended that such aerobic activities as running,
walking, swimming, bicycling, stair climbing, rowing, cross-country
skiing and rope jumping be done three to five times a week, 20 to
50 minutes a session, at a heartbeat of 50 to 85 percent of
maximum. Later, he suggested the addition of two days of strength
training, even for older people.

   He said when people grew older, their oxygen capacity declined,
body fat increased, bone mass diminished and muscles weakened and
shriveled. He said that strength training could prevent or reverse
those negatives. His 1994 study showed that after six months of
weight training, 50 healthy volunteers ages 62 to 82 averaged a 14
percent increase in bone-mineral density.

   In 1992, he reported on another study that showed the benefits
of exercise. An analysis of the records of 13,636 men and 4,828
women disclosed that unfit men were four times more likely than fit
men to develop noninsulin-dependent diabetes. For unfit women, the
chances were 40 percent greater than for fit women.

   In a 1996 study of 121 men and 27 women who had not lifted
weights before, he concluded that people could build almost as much
strength and muscle mass with one set of exercises as three. He had
one random group do one set of weight exercises for 20 minutes a
day and another random group do three times as much. After 14
weeks, both groups had strengthened their quadriceps by 30 percent
and their hamstrings by 20 to 30 percent, but the group that did
three times as much weight exercises was only 4 percent stronger.

   ``One set is enough,'' he concluded, ``but you have to work
hard.''

   Pollock was slightly built. He was in constant pain from
arthritis, according to Nancy Dohn, the director of operations for
the University of Florida's Health Science Center.

   ``He was very fit,'' she said. ``He would exercise two to four
times a week in his office with equipment he used in research. He
never complained about arthritis. He was the most positive person
I've been around.''

   Michael Lee Pollock was born June 24, 1936, in Los Angeles. He
received a bachelor's degree in physical education from the
University of Arizona in 1958. He received a masters in 1961 and a
doctorate in 1967 in exercise physiology from the University of
Illinois.

   He taught and did research at Illinois from 1961 to 1967, Wake
Forest University from 1967 to 1973, the Institute for Aerobics
Research in Dallas from 1973 to 77, the University of Wisconsin at
Milwaukee from 1977 to 1984, and the Texas Heart Institute in
Houston in 1985. He was president of the American College of Sports
Medicine from 1982 to 1983.

   He is survived by his wife, Rhonda; a son, Jonathan, and two
daughters, Lauren and Elisa; his mother, Fauna Pollock of Los
Angeles; a brother, Alan, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and two
sisters, Christine Stephens of Rainbow City, Ala., and Karen Wookey
of Bloomington, Minn.
',
			body: '


  
 (Attn: Ariz., Fla., N.Y., Ill., Texas, Wis., Calif., Minn., Ala.)   (af)  
 By FRANK LITSKY   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   Last week, at the annual meeting of the American College of
Sports Medicine in Orlando, Fla., a position paper was released
that was hailed by the organization as ``the cornerstone of aerobic
training, resistance exercise and flexibility for healthy adults.''

   While attending that meeting, Michael L. Pollock of Gainesville,
Fla., a co-author of the paper and perhaps the nation's most
respected expert on how much and how hard adults should exercise,
died last Friday at age 61. He suffered a stroke that afternoon and
died that night, the organization said.

   Pollock published three books and more than 300 articles on
exercise. Barry Franklin, the president-elect of the organization,
the world's pre-eminent sports medicine institution, called him ``a
giant in the field of exercise science, a man largely responsible
for the knowledge base we have today in exercise training and
cardiac rehabilitation.''

   ``Over the last 20 years,'' Franklin said, ``he was probably the
single most important force in getting cardiac rehabilitation
recognized by the medical community as an integral part of
contemporary care. He helped patients help themselves.''

   In a study, Pollock found that heart-transplant patients who did
weight training could prevent their antirejection medication from
reducing bone density. That, in turn, reduced the chances of
brittle bones and stress fractures. He then drew up individual
lifting programs for each transplant patient.

   To colleagues, he was a role model. Dr. Lewis G. Maharam, the
president of the sports-medicine organization's New York chapter,
described Pollock's role this way:

   ``Every patient asks a sports-medicine doctor, `How much
exercise should I do?' Michael Pollock was the one doing the
research to find out. The greatest health problem in the country is
that people aren't exercising. The whole point of his latest paper
was to quantify how much is enough and how to get people exercising
more.''

   In 1978, Pollock headed the American College of Sports
Medicine's committee that formulated its first position paper on
the quality and quantity of exercise. Revisions in 1990 and last
week incorporated further research.

   Since 1986, he had been affiliated with the University of
Florida, where he was a professor of medicine, physiology and
health and human performance and director of the Center of Exercise
Science. Despite arthritis, he took his own advice and exercised
regularly.

   In 1990, he recommended that such aerobic activities as running,
walking, swimming, bicycling, stair climbing, rowing, cross-country
skiing and rope jumping be done three to five times a week, 20 to
50 minutes a session, at a heartbeat of 50 to 85 percent of
maximum. Later, he suggested the addition of two days of strength
training, even for older people.

   He said when people grew older, their oxygen capacity declined,
body fat increased, bone mass diminished and muscles weakened and
shriveled. He said that strength training could prevent or reverse
those negatives. His 1994 study showed that after six months of
weight training, 50 healthy volunteers ages 62 to 82 averaged a 14
percent increase in bone-mineral density.

   In 1992, he reported on another study that showed the benefits
of exercise. An analysis of the records of 13,636 men and 4,828
women disclosed that unfit men were four times more likely than fit
men to develop noninsulin-dependent diabetes. For unfit women, the
chances were 40 percent greater than for fit women.

   In a 1996 study of 121 men and 27 women who had not lifted
weights before, he concluded that people could build almost as much
strength and muscle mass with one set of exercises as three. He had
one random group do one set of weight exercises for 20 minutes a
day and another random group do three times as much. After 14
weeks, both groups had strengthened their quadriceps by 30 percent
and their hamstrings by 20 to 30 percent, but the group that did
three times as much weight exercises was only 4 percent stronger.

   ``One set is enough,'' he concluded, ``but you have to work
hard.''

   Pollock was slightly built. He was in constant pain from
arthritis, according to Nancy Dohn, the director of operations for
the University of Florida's Health Science Center.

   ``He was very fit,'' she said. ``He would exercise two to four
times a week in his office with equipment he used in research. He
never complained about arthritis. He was the most positive person
I've been around.''

   Michael Lee Pollock was born June 24, 1936, in Los Angeles. He
received a bachelor's degree in physical education from the
University of Arizona in 1958. He received a masters in 1961 and a
doctorate in 1967 in exercise physiology from the University of
Illinois.

   He taught and did research at Illinois from 1961 to 1967, Wake
Forest University from 1967 to 1973, the Institute for Aerobics
Research in Dallas from 1973 to 77, the University of Wisconsin at
Milwaukee from 1977 to 1984, and the Texas Heart Institute in
Houston in 1985. He was president of the American College of Sports
Medicine from 1982 to 1983.

   He is survived by his wife, Rhonda; a son, Jonathan, and two
daughters, Lauren and Elisa; his mother, Fauna Pollock of Los
Angeles; a brother, Alan, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and two
sisters, Christine Stephens of Rainbow City, Ala., and Karen Wookey
of Bloomington, Minn.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0428 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:13 ',
			header: '
A5761 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BKN-KEISSER-COLUMN-LA     06-11 0583
',
			slug: ' BC-BKN-KEISSER-COLUMN-LADN ',
			headline: '
NBC SHOULD DITCH THIS `A' TEAM
',
			trailer: '
   The bad news for fans of the NBA is that Game 5 of the 1998
finals tonight may mark a farewell to Michael Jordan and the
Chicago Bulls as we know them.

   But the good news is that it may be the last time they have to
put up listening to Bob Costas and squeaky-voiced Isiah Thomas.

   NBC's replacement broadcast trio, summoned to work when Marv
Albert exchanged his broadcast career for a silk chemise, will not
end its season on a high. With the exception of Doug Collins, a
midseason addition who breaks games down deftly, Costas and Thomas
have taken some hefty critical broadsides for their low-wattage
work.

   Thomas, well-liked as a player, didn't grow an inch as a
broadcaster from his herky-jerky first days on the job. He has the
voice of a soprano and rarely added anything in the way of cutting
analysis. That became pronounced, too, once Collins joined the
cast.

   Costas, meanwhile, took more hits for a year of basketball
play-by-play than he had in his previous two decades as one of the
premier sportscasters. On baseball, where there are pauses for him
to ruminate and lend his own insight, he's exceedingly sharp. As a
studio host, he gives broadcasts a center.

   But basketball is a sport of passion and ebb-and-flow, and few
play-by-play men could swing both ways as effectively and as
passionately as Albert. Costas does not have that same feeling, and
it showed in his work. And the more he contrived to show passion,
the less effective he became.

   NBC Sports President Dick Ebersol could have solved that problem
before it ever began if he had chosen two other options. One would
have been to put Dick Enberg, who cut his broadcast larynx on UCLA
basketball for KTLA, in the play-by-play chair.

   The other would have been to promote Tom Hammond, Bill Walton
and Steve Jones as the A team. Hammond's a clean pro in the
play-by-play chair, and Walton and Jones enjoy their work and have
fun.

   It will be interesting to see whether NBC seeks to welcome
Albert back to the family this off-season, and whether they cut
Thomas adrift as quickly as they did Matt Goukas.

   NBC's solace are the Nielsen ratings. Jordan's last dance may go
into the record books as the most-watched ever.

   Game 4 Wednesday earned a 19.1 Nielsen national rating and 33
share, a 13 percent jump over Game 4 from a year ago and the
second-highest Game 4 ever. NBC's four-game average to date is a
17.5, the highest ever for the first four games of the finals. The
previous high was 17.1 after four games of the 1993 showdown
between Chicago and Phoenix.

   One Nielsen ratings point is equal to 980,000 homes. The rating
is the percentage of all TVs in the nation, and the share the
percentage of TVs in use at that time. NBC estimates that 58
million people watched some or all of Game 4, and that their last
five telecasts have all topped the 50 million mark.

   NBC may need a sixth game to break the record. The all-time high
is the 17.9 for the six games of the '94 finals.

   Local Nielsen numbers for Game 4 were 53.1/74 in Salt Lake City,
51.4/70 in Chicago, 21.4/34 in Los Angeles and 16.9/26 in New York.

   The previous three games earned Nielsens of 18.0 for Game 1, an
all-time Game 1 high, 16.6 for Game 2, and 16.2 for Game 3 despite
the Bulls burying the Jazz in the second quarter.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By BOB KEISSER  
 Long Beach Press-Telegram  

',
			paragraphs: '
   The bad news for fans of the NBA is that Game 5 of the 1998
finals tonight may mark a farewell to Michael Jordan and the
Chicago Bulls as we know them.

   But the good news is that it may be the last time they have to
put up listening to Bob Costas and squeaky-voiced Isiah Thomas.

   NBC's replacement broadcast trio, summoned to work when Marv
Albert exchanged his broadcast career for a silk chemise, will not
end its season on a high. With the exception of Doug Collins, a
midseason addition who breaks games down deftly, Costas and Thomas
have taken some hefty critical broadsides for their low-wattage
work.

   Thomas, well-liked as a player, didn't grow an inch as a
broadcaster from his herky-jerky first days on the job. He has the
voice of a soprano and rarely added anything in the way of cutting
analysis. That became pronounced, too, once Collins joined the
cast.

   Costas, meanwhile, took more hits for a year of basketball
play-by-play than he had in his previous two decades as one of the
premier sportscasters. On baseball, where there are pauses for him
to ruminate and lend his own insight, he's exceedingly sharp. As a
studio host, he gives broadcasts a center.

   But basketball is a sport of passion and ebb-and-flow, and few
play-by-play men could swing both ways as effectively and as
passionately as Albert. Costas does not have that same feeling, and
it showed in his work. And the more he contrived to show passion,
the less effective he became.

   NBC Sports President Dick Ebersol could have solved that problem
before it ever began if he had chosen two other options. One would
have been to put Dick Enberg, who cut his broadcast larynx on UCLA
basketball for KTLA, in the play-by-play chair.

   The other would have been to promote Tom Hammond, Bill Walton
and Steve Jones as the A team. Hammond's a clean pro in the
play-by-play chair, and Walton and Jones enjoy their work and have
fun.

   It will be interesting to see whether NBC seeks to welcome
Albert back to the family this off-season, and whether they cut
Thomas adrift as quickly as they did Matt Goukas.

   NBC's solace are the Nielsen ratings. Jordan's last dance may go
into the record books as the most-watched ever.

   Game 4 Wednesday earned a 19.1 Nielsen national rating and 33
share, a 13 percent jump over Game 4 from a year ago and the
second-highest Game 4 ever. NBC's four-game average to date is a
17.5, the highest ever for the first four games of the finals. The
previous high was 17.1 after four games of the 1993 showdown
between Chicago and Phoenix.

   One Nielsen ratings point is equal to 980,000 homes. The rating
is the percentage of all TVs in the nation, and the share the
percentage of TVs in use at that time. NBC estimates that 58
million people watched some or all of Game 4, and that their last
five telecasts have all topped the 50 million mark.

   NBC may need a sixth game to break the record. The all-time high
is the 17.9 for the six games of the '94 finals.

   Local Nielsen numbers for Game 4 were 53.1/74 in Salt Lake City,
51.4/70 in Chicago, 21.4/34 in Los Angeles and 16.9/26 in New York.

   The previous three games earned Nielsens of 18.0 for Game 1, an
all-time Game 1 high, 16.6 for Game 2, and 16.2 for Game 3 despite
the Bulls burying the Jazz in the second quarter.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0429 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:14 ',
			header: '
A5772 &Cx1f; taf-z
s f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE     06-11 0904
',
			slug: ' BC-INVEST-EUROPE-OUTSIDE-ART-$ADV14-NYT ',
			headline: '
OPPORTUNITY BEYOND THE EURO'S BORDERS 
(FOR RELEASE SUNDAY, JUNE 14) 
',
			trailer: '
   LONDON _ Euroland may loom as the most visible temptation for
those keen on new investment opportunities in Europe over the next
few years. But strategists here are keeping their eyes on the
periphery of the euro _ the economies and markets of nations that
haven't yet joined the party and others on the edge of the new
united Europe.

   For starters, British traders don't have to look far from home.
The City of London, after all, is Europe's prime financial center _
and is likely to remain so, whatever the outcome of Britain's
flirtations with joining the European Monetary Union.

   Moreover, Britain's companies are seen as a decade or more ahead
of many others in Europe in restructuring their way to
competitiveness.

   With the British economy finally slowing and the pound
weakening, opportunities are opening up for value-oriented
investors, said Mike Young, European investment strategist for
Goldman, Sachs in London.

   Like other analysts, he is recommending investments in
industries that can gain by exporting while holding their domestic
base _ food manufacturers like the Anglo-Dutch Unilever and
pharmaceuticals makers like Glaxo Wellcome, for example.

   Jan Mantel, chief strategist for Europe at Dresdner RCM Global
Investments in London, says there is nothing about the advent of
the euro that should make investors redraw their maps of Europe to
exclude countries outside the 11 currency partners.

   ``I would certainly counsel people to invest in equities in
pan-European funds,'' Mantel said. ``I would put 70 percent or 80
percent of my money in mainstream European stocks, including those
not joining the euro immediately, and 20 percent in those of
emerging markets'' _ Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.

   Though these nations are underperforming Western European
markets by a wide margin, &UR;  &LR; they are broadly regarded as doing a
good job in converting their once-regulated economies to free
markets.

   Unlike wide-open and volatile Russia, where a kind of crony
capitalism has taken hold, they have small-enough populations to
make the transitions manageable, and they are closely tied to the
mature economies of Germany, France, Austria and Scandinavia.

   Young is particularly enthusiastic about Poland, whose low labor
costs contribute to a booming manufacturing industry, as companies
from Germany and other high-cost nations move in to make cars,
machinery and other labor-intensive goods.

   Ed Butchart, a Merrill Lynch equity strategist in London, favors
Polish banking stocks, which, he notes, are a large part of the
stock market; Elektrim, an electric products maker that is a play
on the nation's investment in infrastructure, and Agros Holdings, a
food processor.

   There are fixed-income opportunities, too. Poland's three-year
bonds are paying 16 percent interest. And as the currency
appreciates and inflation abates, holders of that debt stand to
make money.

   Switzerland is not a member of the European Union and will
remain outside the euro, but analysts do not expect that to make
much of a difference for its major industries: pharmaceutical
giants like Roche Holdings and Novartis, the food multinational
Nestle and banks like Union Bank of Switzerland and Swiss Bank,
which are merging, or Bank Julius Baer.

   In Scandinavia, analysts are most bullish on Sweden, which
though a member of the European Union has chosen not to join the
euro club immediately.

   Andreas Tholftrup, a Merrill Lynch investment strategist in
London who specializes in Scandinavia, said his favorite Swedish
stocks include Ericsson, the telecommunications equipment maker;
Volvo, the car maker; Electrolux, the appliance company, and, for
long-term investment, ABB Group, a conglomerate that makes trains,
turbines and heavy machinery and provides engineering services.

   In medical technology, his recommendations include Incentive, a
holding company whose businesses include a range of medical
products, and Ortivus, which focuses on emergency medicine.

   Norway is not a member of the European Union, and analysts worry
about its rising inflation rate and dependence on oil prices, which
have fallen recently. Still, said David Mackie, a European banking
expert at J.P. Morgan in London, ``with oil exports booming and
money coming out of their ears,'' Norwegians live amid opportunity.

   Among his recommended buys: Orkla, a food and beverage company;
Kvaerner, a construction group; Smedvig, an oil services company;
Christiania Bank, and Storebrand, the country's biggest insurer.

   Denmark, another union member that has shunned the euro for now,
remains hobbled by regulation, said Peter Bradshaw, Scandinavian
investment strategist at Merrill. Still, he sees strong prospects
in Tele Danmark, a fast-moving telecommunications company.

   He also recommends the construction sector, but it is a
difficult area for investors overseas to reach because it is
dominated by companies not listed on international stock markets.
',
			body: '


   (ART ADV: Graphic showing stock market performance of 10 European
nations leading companies in each nation will be sent to NYT
graphic clients. Non-subscribers can make individual purchase by
calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.)  
 (af)  
 By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   LONDON _ Euroland may loom as the most visible temptation for
those keen on new investment opportunities in Europe over the next
few years. But strategists here are keeping their eyes on the
periphery of the euro _ the economies and markets of nations that
haven't yet joined the party and others on the edge of the new
united Europe.

   For starters, British traders don't have to look far from home.
The City of London, after all, is Europe's prime financial center _
and is likely to remain so, whatever the outcome of Britain's
flirtations with joining the European Monetary Union.

   Moreover, Britain's companies are seen as a decade or more ahead
of many others in Europe in restructuring their way to
competitiveness.

   With the British economy finally slowing and the pound
weakening, opportunities are opening up for value-oriented
investors, said Mike Young, European investment strategist for
Goldman, Sachs in London.

   Like other analysts, he is recommending investments in
industries that can gain by exporting while holding their domestic
base _ food manufacturers like the Anglo-Dutch Unilever and
pharmaceuticals makers like Glaxo Wellcome, for example.

   Jan Mantel, chief strategist for Europe at Dresdner RCM Global
Investments in London, says there is nothing about the advent of
the euro that should make investors redraw their maps of Europe to
exclude countries outside the 11 currency partners.

   ``I would certainly counsel people to invest in equities in
pan-European funds,'' Mantel said. ``I would put 70 percent or 80
percent of my money in mainstream European stocks, including those
not joining the euro immediately, and 20 percent in those of
emerging markets'' _ Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.

   Though these nations are underperforming Western European
markets by a wide margin, &UR;  &LR; they are broadly regarded as doing a
good job in converting their once-regulated economies to free
markets.

   Unlike wide-open and volatile Russia, where a kind of crony
capitalism has taken hold, they have small-enough populations to
make the transitions manageable, and they are closely tied to the
mature economies of Germany, France, Austria and Scandinavia.

   Young is particularly enthusiastic about Poland, whose low labor
costs contribute to a booming manufacturing industry, as companies
from Germany and other high-cost nations move in to make cars,
machinery and other labor-intensive goods.

   Ed Butchart, a Merrill Lynch equity strategist in London, favors
Polish banking stocks, which, he notes, are a large part of the
stock market; Elektrim, an electric products maker that is a play
on the nation's investment in infrastructure, and Agros Holdings, a
food processor.

   There are fixed-income opportunities, too. Poland's three-year
bonds are paying 16 percent interest. And as the currency
appreciates and inflation abates, holders of that debt stand to
make money.

   Switzerland is not a member of the European Union and will
remain outside the euro, but analysts do not expect that to make
much of a difference for its major industries: pharmaceutical
giants like Roche Holdings and Novartis, the food multinational
Nestle and banks like Union Bank of Switzerland and Swiss Bank,
which are merging, or Bank Julius Baer.

   In Scandinavia, analysts are most bullish on Sweden, which
though a member of the European Union has chosen not to join the
euro club immediately.

   Andreas Tholftrup, a Merrill Lynch investment strategist in
London who specializes in Scandinavia, said his favorite Swedish
stocks include Ericsson, the telecommunications equipment maker;
Volvo, the car maker; Electrolux, the appliance company, and, for
long-term investment, ABB Group, a conglomerate that makes trains,
turbines and heavy machinery and provides engineering services.

   In medical technology, his recommendations include Incentive, a
holding company whose businesses include a range of medical
products, and Ortivus, which focuses on emergency medicine.

   Norway is not a member of the European Union, and analysts worry
about its rising inflation rate and dependence on oil prices, which
have fallen recently. Still, said David Mackie, a European banking
expert at J.P. Morgan in London, ``with oil exports booming and
money coming out of their ears,'' Norwegians live amid opportunity.

   Among his recommended buys: Orkla, a food and beverage company;
Kvaerner, a construction group; Smedvig, an oil services company;
Christiania Bank, and Storebrand, the country's biggest insurer.

   Denmark, another union member that has shunned the euro for now,
remains hobbled by regulation, said Peter Bradshaw, Scandinavian
investment strategist at Merrill. Still, he sees strong prospects
in Tele Danmark, a fast-moving telecommunications company.

   He also recommends the construction sector, but it is a
difficult area for investors overseas to reach because it is
dominated by companies not listed on international stock markets.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0430 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:16 ',
			header: '
A5774 &Cx1f; taf-z
s f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-INVEST-EUROPE-INDIREC     06-11 0665
',
			slug: ' BC-INVEST-EUROPE-INDIRECT-ART-$ADV14-NYT ',
			headline: '
EURO TO REVAMP FOCUS ON SINGLE NATIONS  
 (FOR RELEASE SUNDAY, JUNE 14) 
',
			trailer: '
   Kiss the European country funds goodbye.

   That, at least, is what some insiders are predicting for the
closed-end funds that invest almost exclusively in a single country
among the members of the European Monetary Union.

   Though the introduction of the common currency, the euro, is
still six months away, a debate is smoldering over the fate of
these funds. Some investors and portfolio managers say the funds
will become obsolete as the 11 countries merge their currencies;
others contend that the funds can keep their investment edge.

   ``Two or three years from now, the whole situation will change
and we won't have single-country funds,'' said Barbel Lenz,
portfolio manager of the Emerging Germany Fund, which, as the name
suggests, invests primarily in smaller German companies.

   On the other side are those like Mark H. Breedon, senior vice
president and portfolio manager in London for Alliance Capital
Management, which manages the Austria Fund and the Spain Fund.

   ``There is a clear case for individual country funds,'' Breedon
said, predicting that national identities and local policies will
continue to have a heavy influence on domestic companies. ``The
key, going forward, about why different markets will behave
differently has a lot to do with domestic savings patterns and
consumer preferences.''

   Whoever is right, closed-end funds investing in Europe will have
to evolve with the continent's changing economic structure. And
hanging in the balance is $3.6 billion that American investors have
tied up in 14 European single-country funds, including a few in
countries that will not be adopting the euro as their currency,
including Britain and Russia.

   Closed-end funds, unlike the more popular open-end mutual funds,
have a fixed number of shares that trade on an exchange like stock.
When the demand is strong, the shares trade at a premium to the
value of the assets in the fund. When the demand is weak, they
trade at a discount.

   Investors are already seeing some benefits from Europe's
financial re-engineering. Half the European country funds had gains
of more than 50 percent in net asset value for the 12 months
through May 31. And trading discounts have narrowed in the last
year.

   A transformation of the single-country funds could take many
shapes. With shareholder approval, they could change their
charters, for example, allowing them to invest more in other
countries. The Emerging Germany Fund, for example, will be
converted into a Europe fund, according to Ms. Lenz.

   Any such move, however, has to be approved by the board, then
the shareholders.

   A fund could also shift its focus from a single country to, say,
a single European industry.

   ``Once you have a broader viable economic unit, people will be
looking for industrywide stock selection within that unit, rather
than in the countries,'' said Adam Shapiro, a general partner in
Advantage Capital, a money management firm in Wynnewood, N.J.

   Another possibility is that a fund could maintain its
single-country status, but develop a new niche. ``Instead of just
buying the biggest stocks in their market, maybe they will dig down
into the next tier of issues as they become available,'' said
Tricia Rothschild, a senior analyst at Morningstar Inc., the
financial publisher in Chicago. ``Then they could retain a rational
purpose.''

   In the meantime, investors need not panic, because significant
changes to the fund have to be approved by the shareholders. It may
be time, however, to consider whether a single-country fund still
makes sense in a united Europe.
',
			body: '


  
 (Attn: N.J.)   (ART ADV: Graphic showing list of closed-end country funds will be
sent to NYT graphic clients. Non-subscribers can make individual
purchase by calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.)  
 (af)  
 By NOELLE KNOX   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   Kiss the European country funds goodbye.

   That, at least, is what some insiders are predicting for the
closed-end funds that invest almost exclusively in a single country
among the members of the European Monetary Union.

   Though the introduction of the common currency, the euro, is
still six months away, a debate is smoldering over the fate of
these funds. Some investors and portfolio managers say the funds
will become obsolete as the 11 countries merge their currencies;
others contend that the funds can keep their investment edge.

   ``Two or three years from now, the whole situation will change
and we won't have single-country funds,'' said Barbel Lenz,
portfolio manager of the Emerging Germany Fund, which, as the name
suggests, invests primarily in smaller German companies.

   On the other side are those like Mark H. Breedon, senior vice
president and portfolio manager in London for Alliance Capital
Management, which manages the Austria Fund and the Spain Fund.

   ``There is a clear case for individual country funds,'' Breedon
said, predicting that national identities and local policies will
continue to have a heavy influence on domestic companies. ``The
key, going forward, about why different markets will behave
differently has a lot to do with domestic savings patterns and
consumer preferences.''

   Whoever is right, closed-end funds investing in Europe will have
to evolve with the continent's changing economic structure. And
hanging in the balance is $3.6 billion that American investors have
tied up in 14 European single-country funds, including a few in
countries that will not be adopting the euro as their currency,
including Britain and Russia.

   Closed-end funds, unlike the more popular open-end mutual funds,
have a fixed number of shares that trade on an exchange like stock.
When the demand is strong, the shares trade at a premium to the
value of the assets in the fund. When the demand is weak, they
trade at a discount.

   Investors are already seeing some benefits from Europe's
financial re-engineering. Half the European country funds had gains
of more than 50 percent in net asset value for the 12 months
through May 31. And trading discounts have narrowed in the last
year.

   A transformation of the single-country funds could take many
shapes. With shareholder approval, they could change their
charters, for example, allowing them to invest more in other
countries. The Emerging Germany Fund, for example, will be
converted into a Europe fund, according to Ms. Lenz.

   Any such move, however, has to be approved by the board, then
the shareholders.

   A fund could also shift its focus from a single country to, say,
a single European industry.

   ``Once you have a broader viable economic unit, people will be
looking for industrywide stock selection within that unit, rather
than in the countries,'' said Adam Shapiro, a general partner in
Advantage Capital, a money management firm in Wynnewood, N.J.

   Another possibility is that a fund could maintain its
single-country status, but develop a new niche. ``Instead of just
buying the biggest stocks in their market, maybe they will dig down
into the next tier of issues as they become available,'' said
Tricia Rothschild, a senior analyst at Morningstar Inc., the
financial publisher in Chicago. ``Then they could retain a rational
purpose.''

   In the meantime, investors need not panic, because significant
changes to the fund have to be approved by the shareholders. It may
be time, however, to consider whether a single-country fund still
makes sense in a united Europe.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0431 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:19 ',
			header: '
A5776 &Cx1f; ttj-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BKN--FINALS-HNS &LR;      06-11 1088
',
			slug: ' BC-BKN--FINALS-HNS ',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   Tonight could be &QL; 
Bulls' last waltz

   &UR; By EDDIE SEFKO &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
CHICAGO _ It might be Michael Jordan's last dance. But Scottie
Pippen is doing the rumba (or is it the rumble?) on the heads of
the Utah Jazz in the NBA Finals.

   The Chicago Bulls, up 3-1 on the Jazz, tonight will play the
season's last game at the United Center and can close out the
Finals and, most likely, a legendary era with a victory. A loss
means going back to Salt Lake City for Game 6.

   Will he or won't he? Only Jordan knows for sure if retirement
begins for him after tonight, or whenever the series ends.

   ``The world basically is going to have to wait and see,'' Jordan
said of the future. ``The job is not done. We can taste it, sure.
But it's not over.''

   No, but you can see the winner's circle from here. And you get
the feeling Jordan is going to do everything in his power to make
Bulls owner Jerry Reinsdorf and general manager Jerry Krause get on
the court tonight and face the home fans who desperately want the
Bulls to be kept together.

   And then, maybe, Pippen will be handed the Finals Most Valuable
Player trophy. It would be a fitting way for things to end because
regardless of what Jordan does after this series, Pippen is leaving
no doubt about his game plan.

   ``I don't have any intention of coming back here next season,
even though I stated a couple days ago that I would look to come
back,'' Pippen said. ``I think this is the last run for this
ballclub. I want to look to go on and explore other possibilities.

   ``I'm just trying to get through one more game. And then, I can
stick it (his Bulls uniform) in my trunk. I look at this as the
last run for this ballclub.''

   And there you have it. With coach Phil Jackson also having one
foot out the door, that would leave Jordan by his lonesome next
season if he were to return. That option seems less likely with no
Pippen and no Jackson.

   All those questions could start getting answered tonight,
particularly if Pippen continues to put an exclamation point on his
Bulls career.

   Pippen, not Jordan, has been the most instrumental player in the
series. His defense put the Bulls in command in Games 2 and 3. And
his offense was pivotal for three quarters Wednesday as the Bulls
survived a solid effort by the Jazz.

   If you didn't know better, you would think Pippen was
auditioning for possible employers for next season.

   No doubt the Rockets are watching with interest as the
free-agent price tag for Pippen skyrockets.

   But in spite of the sideshows, the Bulls are trying to be
businesslike to the end.

   ``I'm sure this would mean more to me, Michael and Phil, knowing
that we're probably going into our last season together,'' Pippen
said. ``That's been the drive for us all season, to prove that
we're still the greatest and we're still the champions.

   ``We have to look at this game as if it's the last game for us.
We have to go into this as if there's no tomorrow, because if we go
back on their home court, it sort of evens things out no matter
what the score is.''

   Jordan is every bit as sure tonight will be a war. The home team
never has won the middle three games of the Finals in the 2-3-2
format. A Bulls win tonight would mean they would be the first to
do so.

   ``They're not going to die and roll over,'' Jordan said. ``I
still see belief in their eyes. We've got to take that belief from
them. We don't just have to stab them. We have to turn it once you
stick it in, or they will continue to fight. That's just the makeup
of those two players (John Stockton and Karl Malone). We have to
put the foot down and twist it.''

   Forgive his mixed metaphors. You get the picture.

   ``It's similar to '93 (when the Bulls were up on Phoenix 3-1 but
lost Game 5 in Chicago and had to win the Finals on the Suns'
court),'' Jordan said. ``But there's a more mature leadership here
now with Scottie, me and Phil.

   ``We have to take their hearts. If we don't, they could get
rejuvenated going back to Utah.

   ``When you're trying to finish off things, it's hard. You've got
a lot of thoughts creep in, and you start making plans. And you
forget about the real focus, which is the game. You get a
celebration starting well before the game starts. That makes the
last game the hardest.

   ``We'd love to get this done here in Chicago and in front of our
fans. We've anticipated being here from day one. If this happens to
be the last dance, why not do it in front of the fans?''

   Jazz coach Jerry Sloan said he believes his team must have a
different attitude tonight if it is to avoid a four-game sweep
after squeaking out the opener in Utah.

   ``I think maybe a couple of times we felt like we might have
(lacked confidence) because we didn't run the floor and kind of
felt sorry for ourselves,'' Sloan said. ``I guess you call that
mentally whipped.

   ``I hope we're not mentally whipped at this point, because I
don't like to see people have parties we're not invited to. I'd
like to see us put up a little more of a fight. If we have to
commit 40 fouls, let's commit 40 fouls. That's fine with me.

   ``I'm very disappointed. It's a sad commentary if we have to
admit that we didn't work as hard as we should have worked. It
sends out a bad message that I'm not pleased with. I'm responsible
for that.''

   The case can be made that it is Pippen's play that has taken the
fight out of the Jazz.

   Everybody on both sides expects Jordan to dominate, but Pippen's
elite level of play has been far better than expected.

   ``Scottie Pippen is a major reason why we're here,'' Jordan
said. ``He's a unique player offensively and defensively. The
harmony between us, you can't compare to anything. It's kind of
like Stockton and Malone. Take Stockton away from Malone, and he's
a different player. Take Malone away from Stockton, and he's a
different player.''

   That said, Jordan believes Pippen will follow through on his
desire to test the free-agent market. This might be Jordan's finale
in Chicago, but it almost certainly is Pippen's.

   ``To play without him is like a slap in the face for me,''
Jordan said. ``I think he's entitled to find out what his net worth
is. Whatever choice he may have to make, whether it's somewhere
else or with the Bulls, I want that for him. I want to do whatever
I can to make sure that he continues to prosper as a player.''
',
			body: '

  
 (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
Pippen 
bucking 
for MVP

',
			paragraphs: '
   Tonight could be &QL; 
Bulls' last waltz

   &UR; By EDDIE SEFKO &LR;  &QL; 
 &UR; c. 1998, Houston Chronicle &LR;  &QL; 
CHICAGO _ It might be Michael Jordan's last dance. But Scottie
Pippen is doing the rumba (or is it the rumble?) on the heads of
the Utah Jazz in the NBA Finals.

   The Chicago Bulls, up 3-1 on the Jazz, tonight will play the
season's last game at the United Center and can close out the
Finals and, most likely, a legendary era with a victory. A loss
means going back to Salt Lake City for Game 6.

   Will he or won't he? Only Jordan knows for sure if retirement
begins for him after tonight, or whenever the series ends.

   ``The world basically is going to have to wait and see,'' Jordan
said of the future. ``The job is not done. We can taste it, sure.
But it's not over.''

   No, but you can see the winner's circle from here. And you get
the feeling Jordan is going to do everything in his power to make
Bulls owner Jerry Reinsdorf and general manager Jerry Krause get on
the court tonight and face the home fans who desperately want the
Bulls to be kept together.

   And then, maybe, Pippen will be handed the Finals Most Valuable
Player trophy. It would be a fitting way for things to end because
regardless of what Jordan does after this series, Pippen is leaving
no doubt about his game plan.

   ``I don't have any intention of coming back here next season,
even though I stated a couple days ago that I would look to come
back,'' Pippen said. ``I think this is the last run for this
ballclub. I want to look to go on and explore other possibilities.

   ``I'm just trying to get through one more game. And then, I can
stick it (his Bulls uniform) in my trunk. I look at this as the
last run for this ballclub.''

   And there you have it. With coach Phil Jackson also having one
foot out the door, that would leave Jordan by his lonesome next
season if he were to return. That option seems less likely with no
Pippen and no Jackson.

   All those questions could start getting answered tonight,
particularly if Pippen continues to put an exclamation point on his
Bulls career.

   Pippen, not Jordan, has been the most instrumental player in the
series. His defense put the Bulls in command in Games 2 and 3. And
his offense was pivotal for three quarters Wednesday as the Bulls
survived a solid effort by the Jazz.

   If you didn't know better, you would think Pippen was
auditioning for possible employers for next season.

   No doubt the Rockets are watching with interest as the
free-agent price tag for Pippen skyrockets.

   But in spite of the sideshows, the Bulls are trying to be
businesslike to the end.

   ``I'm sure this would mean more to me, Michael and Phil, knowing
that we're probably going into our last season together,'' Pippen
said. ``That's been the drive for us all season, to prove that
we're still the greatest and we're still the champions.

   ``We have to look at this game as if it's the last game for us.
We have to go into this as if there's no tomorrow, because if we go
back on their home court, it sort of evens things out no matter
what the score is.''

   Jordan is every bit as sure tonight will be a war. The home team
never has won the middle three games of the Finals in the 2-3-2
format. A Bulls win tonight would mean they would be the first to
do so.

   ``They're not going to die and roll over,'' Jordan said. ``I
still see belief in their eyes. We've got to take that belief from
them. We don't just have to stab them. We have to turn it once you
stick it in, or they will continue to fight. That's just the makeup
of those two players (John Stockton and Karl Malone). We have to
put the foot down and twist it.''

   Forgive his mixed metaphors. You get the picture.

   ``It's similar to '93 (when the Bulls were up on Phoenix 3-1 but
lost Game 5 in Chicago and had to win the Finals on the Suns'
court),'' Jordan said. ``But there's a more mature leadership here
now with Scottie, me and Phil.

   ``We have to take their hearts. If we don't, they could get
rejuvenated going back to Utah.

   ``When you're trying to finish off things, it's hard. You've got
a lot of thoughts creep in, and you start making plans. And you
forget about the real focus, which is the game. You get a
celebration starting well before the game starts. That makes the
last game the hardest.

   ``We'd love to get this done here in Chicago and in front of our
fans. We've anticipated being here from day one. If this happens to
be the last dance, why not do it in front of the fans?''

   Jazz coach Jerry Sloan said he believes his team must have a
different attitude tonight if it is to avoid a four-game sweep
after squeaking out the opener in Utah.

   ``I think maybe a couple of times we felt like we might have
(lacked confidence) because we didn't run the floor and kind of
felt sorry for ourselves,'' Sloan said. ``I guess you call that
mentally whipped.

   ``I hope we're not mentally whipped at this point, because I
don't like to see people have parties we're not invited to. I'd
like to see us put up a little more of a fight. If we have to
commit 40 fouls, let's commit 40 fouls. That's fine with me.

   ``I'm very disappointed. It's a sad commentary if we have to
admit that we didn't work as hard as we should have worked. It
sends out a bad message that I'm not pleased with. I'm responsible
for that.''

   The case can be made that it is Pippen's play that has taken the
fight out of the Jazz.

   Everybody on both sides expects Jordan to dominate, but Pippen's
elite level of play has been far better than expected.

   ``Scottie Pippen is a major reason why we're here,'' Jordan
said. ``He's a unique player offensively and defensively. The
harmony between us, you can't compare to anything. It's kind of
like Stockton and Malone. Take Stockton away from Malone, and he's
a different player. Take Malone away from Stockton, and he's a
different player.''

   That said, Jordan believes Pippen will follow through on his
desire to test the free-agent market. This might be Jordan's finale
in Chicago, but it almost certainly is Pippen's.

   ``To play without him is like a slap in the face for me,''
Jordan said. ``I think he's entitled to find out what his net worth
is. Whatever choice he may have to make, whether it's somewhere
else or with the Bulls, I want that for him. I want to do whatever
I can to make sure that he continues to prosper as a player.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0432 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:20 ',
			header: '
A5777 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-CAR-SCHLOTTER-COLUMN-     06-11 0877
',
			slug: ' BC-CAR-SCHLOTTER-COLUMN-LADN ',
			headline: '
SHE GETS HER KICKS ON THE WATER NOW
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Jennifer Jeppson's ascent to the elite class of
personal watercraft riders was about as quick as a lap on her
yellow No.4 Sea-Doo racer.

   The former Oak Park High soccer star had ridden a personal
watercraft twice when she borrowed a friend's boat in 1995 and
started racing. And by the end of that season, Jeppson, now 23, had
qualified for the world championships in Lake Havasu, Ariz.

   ``That's when I realized I could do really well at this,''
Jeppson said.

   Since her rookie year, Jeppson has done really well. And she
comes to this weekend's International Jet Sports Boating
Association California Nationals at San BuenaventuraState Beach in
Ventura as Southern California's top rider in her class.

   Jeppson, the Tri-Valley League's most valuable player in soccer
in 1990 and 1991, will ride in the women's pro-am runabout class
this weekend. She also plans to run in one of the men's classes.

   ``My goal this year is to be state champion in both women's and
men's,'' Jeppson said.

   She also hopes to do well at the world championships, where she
finished fourth in her class last year.

   Jeppson will face a major obstacle to that pursuit this weekend,
defending world women's runabout champion Karine Paturel of France.

   ``It's exciting facing her,'' Jeppson said. ``But it's a little
nerve-wracking, too.''

   Paturel and Jeppson were first and second respectively last
weekend at a race in San Diego.

   To win this week, Jeppson figures good starts and good position
in the 12-18 racer field will be important. After that,
concentration and control are key.

   ``I've got to stay focused and basically stay on the boat, which
can be hard in the surf,'' Jeppson said. ``A lot of people fall
off. It's not always the fastest boat that wins in the surf.''

   Though the boats are capable of speeds over 60 mph, the riders
will average around 50, Jeppson said. Too much speed combined with
ocean swells can cause riders to spend too much time airborne.

   ``You don't want to be launching off every wave,'' she said.
``You want to keep your boat in the water as much as you can.''

   Jeppson admitted, however, that fans love those high leaps into
the air. They see a lot of them at the race's beginning as the
boats start just inside the wave line and power through the surf en
route to their first lap around the course.

   Racing was to begin today with a noon-5 p.m. practice session.
Competition runs Saturday from 8:45 a.m. to about 4 p.m. and Sunday
from 8:15 a.m. to 5 p.m.

   Admission is free, but the state park will charge for parking.

   ``It should be a pretty exciting race this weekend,'' Jeppson
said.

   Leaders of the pack: When the NASCAR Winston West and
Featherlite Southwest Series racers run at Tracy's Altamont Raceway
Park on Sunday, Valencia's Sean Woodside and Granada Hills' M.K.
Kanke will be trying to pad their season-points leads.

   Woodside holds a narrow 10-point lead over Kevin Harvick in the
Winston West series. And he brings with him a history of success at
Altamont. He has won the pole in each of his last three starts
there. And he holds the track qualifying record, an 18.172-second,
99.053-mph lap run around the half-mile track last year.

   ``Altamont is probably the closest thing to Saugus Speedway that
we run on,'' Woodside said, making the comparison to his now-closed
former home track. ``We really get the car dialed in there and we
seem to run very well.''

   Kanke leads the Southwest Tour by an impressive 97 points over
Steve Portenga of Sparks, Nev. Kanke's worst finish in his six 1998
starts has been a sixth at the Colorado 125 on May 30.

   Whole lot of shakin': The driver-crew chief team of Dale
Earnhardt and Larry McReynolds was dissolved this week when owner
Richard Childress shuffled the players on his two-car team.

   Earnhardt, who had been vocal in his dissatisfaction with the
setup of his car lately, will be paired with Kevin Hamlin,
previously the crew chief for Childress teammate Mike Skinner.
McReynolds will now do the tuning for Skinner.

   The changes take effect this weekend at the Miller Lite 400 in
Michigan and come with Earnhardt sitting in 12th place in season
points. In 19 years of Winston Cup competition, Earnhardt's lowest
season finish has been 12th.

   Nuts and bolts: The third race of the four-race International
Race of Champions series will be held Saturday as a support race
for Sunday's NASCAR Miller Lite 400. Mark Martin has a seven-point
lead over Jeff Gordon.... Following last week's bump-and-run
Pontiac Excitement 400, which saw Rusty Wallace take out leader
Gordon with 20 laps to go, Jeremy Mayfield regained the series
points lead with five other drivers within 93 points.... Palmdale's
Lance Hooper got his best start on the Busch Grand National series,
starting second at last weekend's Hardee's 250.... Ventura Raceway
will celebrate Sleepy Tripp Night Saturday when the veteran midget
racer and the USAC midget tour return. The 44-year-old driver will
be seeking the 250th victory of his career. &QL;
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By BILL SCHLOTTER  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ Jennifer Jeppson's ascent to the elite class of
personal watercraft riders was about as quick as a lap on her
yellow No.4 Sea-Doo racer.

   The former Oak Park High soccer star had ridden a personal
watercraft twice when she borrowed a friend's boat in 1995 and
started racing. And by the end of that season, Jeppson, now 23, had
qualified for the world championships in Lake Havasu, Ariz.

   ``That's when I realized I could do really well at this,''
Jeppson said.

   Since her rookie year, Jeppson has done really well. And she
comes to this weekend's International Jet Sports Boating
Association California Nationals at San BuenaventuraState Beach in
Ventura as Southern California's top rider in her class.

   Jeppson, the Tri-Valley League's most valuable player in soccer
in 1990 and 1991, will ride in the women's pro-am runabout class
this weekend. She also plans to run in one of the men's classes.

   ``My goal this year is to be state champion in both women's and
men's,'' Jeppson said.

   She also hopes to do well at the world championships, where she
finished fourth in her class last year.

   Jeppson will face a major obstacle to that pursuit this weekend,
defending world women's runabout champion Karine Paturel of France.

   ``It's exciting facing her,'' Jeppson said. ``But it's a little
nerve-wracking, too.''

   Paturel and Jeppson were first and second respectively last
weekend at a race in San Diego.

   To win this week, Jeppson figures good starts and good position
in the 12-18 racer field will be important. After that,
concentration and control are key.

   ``I've got to stay focused and basically stay on the boat, which
can be hard in the surf,'' Jeppson said. ``A lot of people fall
off. It's not always the fastest boat that wins in the surf.''

   Though the boats are capable of speeds over 60 mph, the riders
will average around 50, Jeppson said. Too much speed combined with
ocean swells can cause riders to spend too much time airborne.

   ``You don't want to be launching off every wave,'' she said.
``You want to keep your boat in the water as much as you can.''

   Jeppson admitted, however, that fans love those high leaps into
the air. They see a lot of them at the race's beginning as the
boats start just inside the wave line and power through the surf en
route to their first lap around the course.

   Racing was to begin today with a noon-5 p.m. practice session.
Competition runs Saturday from 8:45 a.m. to about 4 p.m. and Sunday
from 8:15 a.m. to 5 p.m.

   Admission is free, but the state park will charge for parking.

   ``It should be a pretty exciting race this weekend,'' Jeppson
said.

   Leaders of the pack: When the NASCAR Winston West and
Featherlite Southwest Series racers run at Tracy's Altamont Raceway
Park on Sunday, Valencia's Sean Woodside and Granada Hills' M.K.
Kanke will be trying to pad their season-points leads.

   Woodside holds a narrow 10-point lead over Kevin Harvick in the
Winston West series. And he brings with him a history of success at
Altamont. He has won the pole in each of his last three starts
there. And he holds the track qualifying record, an 18.172-second,
99.053-mph lap run around the half-mile track last year.

   ``Altamont is probably the closest thing to Saugus Speedway that
we run on,'' Woodside said, making the comparison to his now-closed
former home track. ``We really get the car dialed in there and we
seem to run very well.''

   Kanke leads the Southwest Tour by an impressive 97 points over
Steve Portenga of Sparks, Nev. Kanke's worst finish in his six 1998
starts has been a sixth at the Colorado 125 on May 30.

   Whole lot of shakin': The driver-crew chief team of Dale
Earnhardt and Larry McReynolds was dissolved this week when owner
Richard Childress shuffled the players on his two-car team.

   Earnhardt, who had been vocal in his dissatisfaction with the
setup of his car lately, will be paired with Kevin Hamlin,
previously the crew chief for Childress teammate Mike Skinner.
McReynolds will now do the tuning for Skinner.

   The changes take effect this weekend at the Miller Lite 400 in
Michigan and come with Earnhardt sitting in 12th place in season
points. In 19 years of Winston Cup competition, Earnhardt's lowest
season finish has been 12th.

   Nuts and bolts: The third race of the four-race International
Race of Champions series will be held Saturday as a support race
for Sunday's NASCAR Miller Lite 400. Mark Martin has a seven-point
lead over Jeff Gordon.... Following last week's bump-and-run
Pontiac Excitement 400, which saw Rusty Wallace take out leader
Gordon with 20 laps to go, Jeremy Mayfield regained the series
points lead with five other drivers within 93 points.... Palmdale's
Lance Hooper got his best start on the Busch Grand National series,
starting second at last weekend's Hardee's 250.... Ventura Raceway
will celebrate Sleepy Tripp Night Saturday when the veteran midget
racer and the USAC midget tour return. The 44-year-old driver will
be seeking the 250th victory of his career. &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0433 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:26 ',
			header: '
A5779 &Cx1f; tta-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-GM-STRIKE-ART-1STLD-W     06-11 0900
',
			slug: ' BC-GM-STRIKE-ART-1STLD-WRITETHRU-830(2TAKES)-NYT ',
			headline: '
UAW STRIKE AGAINST GM SPREADS TO 2ND PARTS FACTORY 
',
			trailer: '
   DETROIT _ Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike on Thursday
evening at a General Motors factory in Flint, Mich., joining fellow
strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter fight that
could close all of the leading automaker's North American assembly
plants within days.

   GM, the world's largest automaker, had already closed seven of
those assembly plants and temporarily laid off 18,600 workers for
lack of parts from the initial strike last Friday at a
metal-stamping plant in Flint. Most of GM's other 22 assembly
plants in the United States, Canada and Mexico are now expected to
quickly run out of the spark plugs, speedometers and other parts
made by the giant factory where workers walked out on Thursday
night.

   With some parts factories also likely to close, GM could be
forced to temporarily lay off up to 200,000 more workers.

   The workers struck over GM's efforts to move production tasks to
other factories, both inside and outside the country, where costs
are lower, a move they regard as a threat to job security. Hundreds
of strikers shouting ``UAW!'' and toting placards identifying their
local union unit mobbed the parts factory's gates. They were joined
by workers from the metal-stamping factory.

   Scattered among the picketers were UAW members from across
Michigan and even Ohio and Illinois who had come to show their
anger at GM, which has contended with steadily worsening labor
relations in trying to make its factories run as efficiently as
those of competitors.

   GM said in a terse statement that it was disappointed by the
broadening of the strike to a second parts factory. ``We have
committed, talented people and we encourage the union to join
management leadership at both facilities to urgently reach
settlements that help us effectively work with them to improve GM's
competitive position in the marketplace,'' the company said.

   Union officials at both factories have cited health and safety
concerns for their strikes, because the UAW's current contract with
GM limits most other walkouts and does not expire for another year.

   But union officials have acknowledged a broader agenda as well.
The spark plug factory workers have been increasingly alarmed in
recent years as GM has bought more basic auto parts from outside
companies, including some in Mexico, while selling its own
factories or cutting back employment.

   The metal-stamping factory workers have been worried that GM
management is assigning other factories work on vehicles not yet in
production, possibly signaling the stamping plant's
obsolescence.The strikers have also been infuriated by GM's
decision to remove, over the Memorial Day weekend, many of the
casting dies needed to stamp hoods and other metal parts for GM's
new full-size pickup trucks.

   As in eight other local strikes over the last three years, GM
executives have vowed to proceed with their long-standing plans to
cut costs. But senior UAW officials have increasingly come to see
this confrontation as an emotional struggle, perceiving a threat to
the union's long-term survival in GM's willingness to remove
equipment from plants where workers are about to go on strike.

   Two people close to the UAW said that with the broadening of the
strike to a second factory, the overall walkout could easily last
until the end of June. Union leaders will face pressure to settle
so that UAW members can collect full pay during the industry's
annual summer vacation in early July.

   National leaders of the UAW almost never visited the picket
lines during eight local strikes against GM over the previous three
years. But they have been doing so daily this week. While senior
UAW and GM officials refrained from criticizing each other in
public during the previous strikes, both sides have been doing so
this time.

   Even people close to the UAW concede that the metal stamping
workers in Flint have had one of the most generous special deals in
the auto industry. Its provisions allowed some workers to draw a
full day's pay for half a day's work. Workers agreed two years ago
to give up many of these provisions in exchange for further GM
investment in Flint. The union now contends that the investment has
not been forthcoming, an accusation denied by GM.

   The truck parts metal-stamping equipment was transferred by GM
to an Ohio factory with a more efficient work force. GM has been
planning to build the pickups initially in Oshawa, Ontario.

   But Basil Hargrove, the president of the Canadian Auto Workers
Union, warned in a telephone interview on Thursday morning that GM
should not count on Canadian worker willingness to accept parts
produced by equipment taken out of the Flint factory. The Canadian
workers were angry that GM managers had made such a presumption.

   ``We're not noted much for strike breaking,'' Hargrove said.
``If anybody says they're moving those dies and that's your
livelihood, logic no longer plays any part of it, it's emotion.''

   nn

   GM executives have said repeatedly this year that the company
must become more efficient to stay competitive. While Ford and
Chrysler now derive most of their automotive sales and profits from
pickups, mini-vans and sport utility vehicles, with relatively
little competition from foreign brands, GM still sells mostly cars
and faces heavy pressure from imports and from non-union factories
in the United States.

   That pressure has only increased as the dollar's value has
soared in global foreign-exchange markets this year, which makes it
even cheaper for foreign automakers to sell their cars in this
country with generous discounts.

   GM's stamping operations are particularly inefficient compared
with those of rivals. The company gloated last summer that its cost
for producing new dies was only twice that of GM's most efficient
competitor _ but used to be eight times higher.

   The stamping factory in Flint is among the least efficient of
all, and under great pressure from GM to improve its results or
face closure.``They have 14 stamping facilities and they probably
need 9 or 10,'' said David Bradley, an analyst at J.P. Morgan and
Co.

   A successful introduction of the new pickup truck is considered
vital to GM, which earns up to half its worldwide profits just from
sales in North America of full-size pickup trucks and the Suburban,
Yukon and Tahoe sport utility vehicles, which share the same
underbodies. GM plans to introduce new versions of the sport
utility vehicles a year after the new pickups.

   Canadian law puts more restrictions than American law on the
ability of unions to strike in between contract negotiations, and
the current Canadian labor contract runs until late 1999. But the
Oshawa workers are among the most militant in the North American
auto industry.

   During a 1996 strike, GM sent a flat-bed truck with a police
escort to the Oshawa factory and tried to remove parts-making
equipment similar to the equipment removed from the Flint factory.
Hundreds of Canadian auto workers blocked the front gates and
refused police orders to disperse. GM sought a court order against
the union action but later dropped it as part of a broad strike
settlement.

   Hargrove said that no parts from the moved Flint equipment had
arrived yet in Oshawa, and he declined to speculate on what would
happen if they did. GM officials said that they had begun producing
the pickup parts at another location but refused to identify where
or say whether the parts were being shipped to Canada.
',
			body: '


  
 (Eds: Rewrites 1st 4 grafs.)  (ART ADV; Photo has been sent to NYT photo clients. Non-subscribers
can make individual purchase by calling 212-556-4204 or 1927.) 
(lb) 
 By KEITH BRADSHER   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   DETROIT _ Nearly 6,000 workers went on strike on Thursday
evening at a General Motors factory in Flint, Mich., joining fellow
strikers at a nearby GM plant in an increasingly bitter fight that
could close all of the leading automaker's North American assembly
plants within days.

   GM, the world's largest automaker, had already closed seven of
those assembly plants and temporarily laid off 18,600 workers for
lack of parts from the initial strike last Friday at a
metal-stamping plant in Flint. Most of GM's other 22 assembly
plants in the United States, Canada and Mexico are now expected to
quickly run out of the spark plugs, speedometers and other parts
made by the giant factory where workers walked out on Thursday
night.

   With some parts factories also likely to close, GM could be
forced to temporarily lay off up to 200,000 more workers.

   The workers struck over GM's efforts to move production tasks to
other factories, both inside and outside the country, where costs
are lower, a move they regard as a threat to job security. Hundreds
of strikers shouting ``UAW!'' and toting placards identifying their
local union unit mobbed the parts factory's gates. They were joined
by workers from the metal-stamping factory.

   Scattered among the picketers were UAW members from across
Michigan and even Ohio and Illinois who had come to show their
anger at GM, which has contended with steadily worsening labor
relations in trying to make its factories run as efficiently as
those of competitors.

   GM said in a terse statement that it was disappointed by the
broadening of the strike to a second parts factory. ``We have
committed, talented people and we encourage the union to join
management leadership at both facilities to urgently reach
settlements that help us effectively work with them to improve GM's
competitive position in the marketplace,'' the company said.

   Union officials at both factories have cited health and safety
concerns for their strikes, because the UAW's current contract with
GM limits most other walkouts and does not expire for another year.

   But union officials have acknowledged a broader agenda as well.
The spark plug factory workers have been increasingly alarmed in
recent years as GM has bought more basic auto parts from outside
companies, including some in Mexico, while selling its own
factories or cutting back employment.

   The metal-stamping factory workers have been worried that GM
management is assigning other factories work on vehicles not yet in
production, possibly signaling the stamping plant's
obsolescence.The strikers have also been infuriated by GM's
decision to remove, over the Memorial Day weekend, many of the
casting dies needed to stamp hoods and other metal parts for GM's
new full-size pickup trucks.

   As in eight other local strikes over the last three years, GM
executives have vowed to proceed with their long-standing plans to
cut costs. But senior UAW officials have increasingly come to see
this confrontation as an emotional struggle, perceiving a threat to
the union's long-term survival in GM's willingness to remove
equipment from plants where workers are about to go on strike.

   Two people close to the UAW said that with the broadening of the
strike to a second factory, the overall walkout could easily last
until the end of June. Union leaders will face pressure to settle
so that UAW members can collect full pay during the industry's
annual summer vacation in early July.

   National leaders of the UAW almost never visited the picket
lines during eight local strikes against GM over the previous three
years. But they have been doing so daily this week. While senior
UAW and GM officials refrained from criticizing each other in
public during the previous strikes, both sides have been doing so
this time.

   Even people close to the UAW concede that the metal stamping
workers in Flint have had one of the most generous special deals in
the auto industry. Its provisions allowed some workers to draw a
full day's pay for half a day's work. Workers agreed two years ago
to give up many of these provisions in exchange for further GM
investment in Flint. The union now contends that the investment has
not been forthcoming, an accusation denied by GM.

   The truck parts metal-stamping equipment was transferred by GM
to an Ohio factory with a more efficient work force. GM has been
planning to build the pickups initially in Oshawa, Ontario.

   But Basil Hargrove, the president of the Canadian Auto Workers
Union, warned in a telephone interview on Thursday morning that GM
should not count on Canadian worker willingness to accept parts
produced by equipment taken out of the Flint factory. The Canadian
workers were angry that GM managers had made such a presumption.

   ``We're not noted much for strike breaking,'' Hargrove said.
``If anybody says they're moving those dies and that's your
livelihood, logic no longer plays any part of it, it's emotion.''

   nn

   GM executives have said repeatedly this year that the company
must become more efficient to stay competitive. While Ford and
Chrysler now derive most of their automotive sales and profits from
pickups, mini-vans and sport utility vehicles, with relatively
little competition from foreign brands, GM still sells mostly cars
and faces heavy pressure from imports and from non-union factories
in the United States.

   That pressure has only increased as the dollar's value has
soared in global foreign-exchange markets this year, which makes it
even cheaper for foreign automakers to sell their cars in this
country with generous discounts.

   GM's stamping operations are particularly inefficient compared
with those of rivals. The company gloated last summer that its cost
for producing new dies was only twice that of GM's most efficient
competitor _ but used to be eight times higher.

   The stamping factory in Flint is among the least efficient of
all, and under great pressure from GM to improve its results or
face closure.``They have 14 stamping facilities and they probably
need 9 or 10,'' said David Bradley, an analyst at J.P. Morgan and
Co.

   A successful introduction of the new pickup truck is considered
vital to GM, which earns up to half its worldwide profits just from
sales in North America of full-size pickup trucks and the Suburban,
Yukon and Tahoe sport utility vehicles, which share the same
underbodies. GM plans to introduce new versions of the sport
utility vehicles a year after the new pickups.

   Canadian law puts more restrictions than American law on the
ability of unions to strike in between contract negotiations, and
the current Canadian labor contract runs until late 1999. But the
Oshawa workers are among the most militant in the North American
auto industry.

   During a 1996 strike, GM sent a flat-bed truck with a police
escort to the Oshawa factory and tried to remove parts-making
equipment similar to the equipment removed from the Flint factory.
Hundreds of Canadian auto workers blocked the front gates and
refused police orders to disperse. GM sought a court order against
the union action but later dropped it as part of a broad strike
settlement.

   Hargrove said that no parts from the moved Flint equipment had
arrived yet in Oshawa, and he declined to speculate on what would
happen if they did. GM officials said that they had begun producing
the pickup parts at another location but refused to identify where
or say whether the parts were being shipped to Canada.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0435 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:28 ',
			header: '
A5784 &Cx1f; ttc-z
r s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BKN-HOFFARTH-COLUMN-L     06-11 0983
',
			slug: ' BC-BKN-HOFFARTH-COLUMN-LADN ',
			headline: '
TIME FOR PEACOCK TO PUCKER UP TO JORDAN
',
			trailer: '
   LOS ANGELES _ A note intercepted from NBC messenger Ahmad Rashad
sneaking out of the network compound at the United Center in
Chicago early this morning en route to the Michael Jordan estate:

   My dearest MJ:

   On behalf of NBC _ all its employees, its affiliates, its
sponsors, its accountants _ I want to take this moment to thank
you, from the bottom of our wallets, for your incredible run. Not
only that, it's been both an honor to watch you create your art and
a privilege to provide the medium by which you've accomplished your
finest work.

   Michael, you are the Michelangelo of your time.

   Now, just one last thing:

   Don't go.

   Please, don't go.

   Don't go away.

   It says here the NBA Finals could end tonight. That doesn't work
for us.

   Let's talk numbers.

   Through the first four games of these NBA Finals, we have been
bestowed an all-time high 17.5 Nielsen rating average. I'm like
you. Nielsen numbers don't mean anything to me. Except, in this
case, my job. So I have to acknowledge them.

   To put this into context, the previous four-game high was in '93
(17.1) when you guys squashed Charles Barkley and Phoenix. The
first three games of last year's Jazz-Bulls series made it to about
two million fewer homes (15.5 average).

   Very Bullish, indeed. But there's more.

   Despite trashing the Jazz in Game 3, the 16.2 rating/28 share
was the second-highest Game 3 in Finals history. We think about 52
million folks watched all or part of that one. Especially the part
when you were goofing off on the bench during the fourth quarter.
You're (ital)soooo(off) funny! (Want another guest host spot on
``Saturday Night Live''?)

   Game 4 came back with a 19.1/33 _ making it the fourth
most-watched NBA telecast in history with 58 million viewers.

   Who knew that an Adam Keefe-Luc Longley matchup could produce
such viewership?

   The network also won the week ending June 7 _ the first three
NBA Final games were the week's three top-rated shows. ``Touched by
an Angel'' was squashed by a dynasty.

   How much do you mean to us? Let us continue to count the ways.

   I pick up the latest copy of Fortune magazine _ with you on the
cover, of course, right under the Sports Illustrated, with you on
the cover, of course. Fortune makes me pay $4.95 to tell me you're
responsible for about $10 billion in our nation's economy. No
surprise.

   One thing bothered me about that story. When it tried to
determine how much you've meant to NBC, it came up with a formula _
a dollar figure _ that I'm not real comfortable with.

   Compare the ratings of the previous five NBC Finals during the
'90s that you have participated (16.3) versus the three series that
you were, ahem, absent (12.9). That's a 27 percent increase.
Applied to the $1.3 billion in rights fees we have paid this
decade, that means _ according to them _ a $366 million surplus.
That's without even factoring in this year's numbers.

   Sure, that's a lot of Wheaties. But you know what? That $366
millll (sorry, my hand shakes when I write that number) doesn't
begin to measure our relationship. Our love. The time we've spent
together. Those special moments no one can take from us ...

   Maybe you can walk away from that. But I can't.

   If I'm being too dramatic, I apologize. Desperate people
sometimes do desperate things. Just look at this rival NFL deal I'm
trying to put together with, of all people, Ted Turner. 'Nough
said.

   Bottom line: This show must go on. We aren't satisfied with a
Game 6 and 7. I'll be honest. I've been talking to David Stern
about making this a best of 23 _ that's your number, right? _ and I
think we can make this the highest-rated summer replacement show in
the history of television.

   But I need more time. And I'm told I need your approval.

   If you pull a Seinfeld on us right now _ if you walk away from
this gold mine _ you're making a huge mistake.

   It's not as if you're moving on to something bigger. What are
you going to do in your free time anyway, get your own talk show?
Don't even make me bring up ``The Magic Hour'' at a time like this.

   I shouldn't have to be in this groveling position. I'm a network
executive. People grovel to me. But this should be as obvious to
you _ and all your endorsers _ as it is to us.

   In American TV, we don't quit while we're ahead. We milk every
last drop with spin-offs, reruns, syndication... guest hosting
``Saturday Night Live'' (did I mention that already?)

   MJ, after all we've done for you.

   You owe us.

   Breathlessly awaiting your reply (I'm in the limo right outside
your front gates, if you look out the door). &QL; 
_Dick Ebersol &QL; 
_Big shot, NBC Sports &QL;

   WHAT CHOKES  &QL;

   _ It's so scripted that it's insulting, so awkward that it's
painful. Basically, it just makes you want to cry. As a talk-show
host, Magic Johnson is one of the greatest players in NBA history.
There's a new commercial with Magic laying on the beach saying,
``With the American Express card, you can be anything you like.''
Not quite. ``The Tragic Hour'' has no magic, no matter what any of
Hollywood's best special-effects artists can produce. So far,
critics have gone relatively easy on the ex-Lakers star mugging for
the camera and pretending to interview celebs who once applauded
his work. We'd all like to see him succeed. But someone has to
prevent him from embarrassing himself any more. One of his yes-men
must see that. One week in, he's given radio show hosts like Howard
Stern fodder for months. This proposed transformation of a sports
icon into the next Arsenio Hall

   must be declared an unnatural disaster before the White House
sends public funds in to clean up the mess.
',
			body: '


 (For use by NYTimes News Service clients) 
By TOM HOFFARTH  
 c.1998 Los Angeles Daily News  

',
			paragraphs: '
   LOS ANGELES _ A note intercepted from NBC messenger Ahmad Rashad
sneaking out of the network compound at the United Center in
Chicago early this morning en route to the Michael Jordan estate:

   My dearest MJ:

   On behalf of NBC _ all its employees, its affiliates, its
sponsors, its accountants _ I want to take this moment to thank
you, from the bottom of our wallets, for your incredible run. Not
only that, it's been both an honor to watch you create your art and
a privilege to provide the medium by which you've accomplished your
finest work.

   Michael, you are the Michelangelo of your time.

   Now, just one last thing:

   Don't go.

   Please, don't go.

   Don't go away.

   It says here the NBA Finals could end tonight. That doesn't work
for us.

   Let's talk numbers.

   Through the first four games of these NBA Finals, we have been
bestowed an all-time high 17.5 Nielsen rating average. I'm like
you. Nielsen numbers don't mean anything to me. Except, in this
case, my job. So I have to acknowledge them.

   To put this into context, the previous four-game high was in '93
(17.1) when you guys squashed Charles Barkley and Phoenix. The
first three games of last year's Jazz-Bulls series made it to about
two million fewer homes (15.5 average).

   Very Bullish, indeed. But there's more.

   Despite trashing the Jazz in Game 3, the 16.2 rating/28 share
was the second-highest Game 3 in Finals history. We think about 52
million folks watched all or part of that one. Especially the part
when you were goofing off on the bench during the fourth quarter.
You're (ital)soooo(off) funny! (Want another guest host spot on
``Saturday Night Live''?)

   Game 4 came back with a 19.1/33 _ making it the fourth
most-watched NBA telecast in history with 58 million viewers.

   Who knew that an Adam Keefe-Luc Longley matchup could produce
such viewership?

   The network also won the week ending June 7 _ the first three
NBA Final games were the week's three top-rated shows. ``Touched by
an Angel'' was squashed by a dynasty.

   How much do you mean to us? Let us continue to count the ways.

   I pick up the latest copy of Fortune magazine _ with you on the
cover, of course, right under the Sports Illustrated, with you on
the cover, of course. Fortune makes me pay $4.95 to tell me you're
responsible for about $10 billion in our nation's economy. No
surprise.

   One thing bothered me about that story. When it tried to
determine how much you've meant to NBC, it came up with a formula _
a dollar figure _ that I'm not real comfortable with.

   Compare the ratings of the previous five NBC Finals during the
'90s that you have participated (16.3) versus the three series that
you were, ahem, absent (12.9). That's a 27 percent increase.
Applied to the $1.3 billion in rights fees we have paid this
decade, that means _ according to them _ a $366 million surplus.
That's without even factoring in this year's numbers.

   Sure, that's a lot of Wheaties. But you know what? That $366
millll (sorry, my hand shakes when I write that number) doesn't
begin to measure our relationship. Our love. The time we've spent
together. Those special moments no one can take from us ...

   Maybe you can walk away from that. But I can't.

   If I'm being too dramatic, I apologize. Desperate people
sometimes do desperate things. Just look at this rival NFL deal I'm
trying to put together with, of all people, Ted Turner. 'Nough
said.

   Bottom line: This show must go on. We aren't satisfied with a
Game 6 and 7. I'll be honest. I've been talking to David Stern
about making this a best of 23 _ that's your number, right? _ and I
think we can make this the highest-rated summer replacement show in
the history of television.

   But I need more time. And I'm told I need your approval.

   If you pull a Seinfeld on us right now _ if you walk away from
this gold mine _ you're making a huge mistake.

   It's not as if you're moving on to something bigger. What are
you going to do in your free time anyway, get your own talk show?
Don't even make me bring up ``The Magic Hour'' at a time like this.

   I shouldn't have to be in this groveling position. I'm a network
executive. People grovel to me. But this should be as obvious to
you _ and all your endorsers _ as it is to us.

   In American TV, we don't quit while we're ahead. We milk every
last drop with spin-offs, reruns, syndication... guest hosting
``Saturday Night Live'' (did I mention that already?)

   MJ, after all we've done for you.

   You owe us.

   Breathlessly awaiting your reply (I'm in the limo right outside
your front gates, if you look out the door). &QL; 
_Dick Ebersol &QL; 
_Big shot, NBC Sports &QL;

   WHAT CHOKES  &QL;

   _ It's so scripted that it's insulting, so awkward that it's
painful. Basically, it just makes you want to cry. As a talk-show
host, Magic Johnson is one of the greatest players in NBA history.
There's a new commercial with Magic laying on the beach saying,
``With the American Express card, you can be anything you like.''
Not quite. ``The Tragic Hour'' has no magic, no matter what any of
Hollywood's best special-effects artists can produce. So far,
critics have gone relatively easy on the ex-Lakers star mugging for
the camera and pretending to interview celebs who once applauded
his work. We'd all like to see him succeed. But someone has to
prevent him from embarrassing himself any more. One of his yes-men
must see that. One week in, he's given radio show hosts like Howard
Stern fodder for months. This proposed transformation of a sports
icon into the next Arsenio Hall

   must be declared an unnatural disaster before the White House
sends public funds in to clean up the mess.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0436 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:33 ',
			header: '
A5786 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BBN-METS-MARLINS-425&AMP;     06-11 0736
',
			slug: ' BC-BBN-METS-MARLINS-425&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
MARLINS GREEN ENOUGH TO KEEP METS ROLLING 
',
			trailer: '
   MIAMI _ For four innings Thursday night, the story line was not
only fairly straightforward, it was also compelling to boot. One
day after Al Leiter had won and again demonstrated why the Mets
sent four minor-leaguers to Florida for him during the off-season,
one of those minor-leaguers was showing the Mets why he was the
main portion of the asking price.

   Jesus Sanchez, a 23-year-old left-hander, had faced 13 batters,
one over the minimum, as he carried a 3-0 lead into the fifth. But
then Sanchez, who pitched in Class AA last season, hit a snag. Or
rather, his right-fielder, Mark Kotsay, did. And Sanchez, who
struck out eight in his stint of six and two-thirds innings, ended
up losing both the lead and the game as the Mets beat the Marlins,
5-3.

   Behind a pair of hits by pitcher Bobby Jones, a home run by Mike
Piazza and a tie-breaking seventh-inning single from Edgardo
Alfonzo, the Mets, who also received a ninth-inning home run from
Brian McRae, rallied to spoil Sanchez's first game against the
organization that signed him out of the Dominican Republic in 1992.

   But had Kotsay not thrown two balls away on successive
fifth-inning hits, or had first-base umpire Bill Hohn ruled McRae
out on a disputed pickoff attempt in the seventh, the result might
have been different.

   That Jones (6-3) was around to lead the comeback and pick up the
victory was testament to the faith Manager Bobby Valentine has in
him. Jones allowed three runs and six hits over his first two
innings. But from the third through the seventh, he allowed only
one more hit. He has won five consecutive decisions.

   The Mets, meanwhile, waited to capitalize on their opponents'
mistakes. Sure enough, Kotsay _ like Sanchez, one of 13 Marlin
rookies _ obliged by making consecutive high throws for errors in a
two-run fifth that cut the Marlins' lead to 3-2.

   The first error came on a two-out double over first by Rey
Ordonez, Kotsay's throw from the right-field line sailing over
second base. That enabled Carlos Baerga, who had singled to open
the inning, to score from first with the Mets' first run.

   Jones singled to right on Sanchez's very next pitch, with Kotsay
overthrowing first base in a vain attempt to retire Jones to end
the inning. Instead, the ball wound up in the Florida dugout,
Ordonez scored from second, and the Mets trailed by a run.

   An inning later, Piazza gave the Mets a 3-3 tie with his third
homer with the team and his 12th of the season.

   In the seventh, McRae drew a one-out walk, the only pass Sanchez
issued. On an 0-1 count to Ordonez, Sanchez appeared to have picked
McRae off first. But Hohn ruled him safe.

   Sanchez (3-3) eventually struck Ordonez out. But Jones, who was
2-for-17 coming into the game, singled to left. On came Brian
Edmonson in relief of Sanchez, and Alfonzo followed with a single
up the middle. The Mets (36-24) held on to win for the 17th time in
the last 24 games.

   INSIDE PITCH:

   Bernard Gilkey went 0-for-4 and is now 0-for his last 25. ...
John Franco pitched a scoreless ninth for his 14th save. The
appearance was Franco's 400th as a Met. One more, and he ties Tom
Seaver's franchise record. ... Wayne Kirby joined the Mets
Thursday, one day after General Manager Steve Phillips sent
minor-league infielder Shawn Gilbert and a player to be named to
the Cardinals for the 34-year-old outfielder, who was at Class AAA
Memphis awaiting a trade or a call-up. A career .254 hitter over
parts of seven major-league seasons with the Indians and Dodgers,
Kirby will take Rich Becker's place on the roster. Becker, who was
hitting .190 with 42 strikeouts in 49 games, was designated for
assignment on Wednesday. ``He does the things we thought Rich could
do,'' Phillips said of Kirby, who like Becker hits left-handed and
can play all three outfield positions. Manager Bobby Valentine said
of Kirby, ``He's tough to strike out.'' What bothered the Mets most
about Becker was the way he was striking out. ``He just sort of
stopped swinging,'' Valentine said. ``He was just taking so much,
and it was frustrating to see. He couldn't figure out where the
outside corner was. He kept thinking everything was outside.''
',
			body: '


  (lh) 
 By JASON DIAMOS   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   MIAMI _ For four innings Thursday night, the story line was not
only fairly straightforward, it was also compelling to boot. One
day after Al Leiter had won and again demonstrated why the Mets
sent four minor-leaguers to Florida for him during the off-season,
one of those minor-leaguers was showing the Mets why he was the
main portion of the asking price.

   Jesus Sanchez, a 23-year-old left-hander, had faced 13 batters,
one over the minimum, as he carried a 3-0 lead into the fifth. But
then Sanchez, who pitched in Class AA last season, hit a snag. Or
rather, his right-fielder, Mark Kotsay, did. And Sanchez, who
struck out eight in his stint of six and two-thirds innings, ended
up losing both the lead and the game as the Mets beat the Marlins,
5-3.

   Behind a pair of hits by pitcher Bobby Jones, a home run by Mike
Piazza and a tie-breaking seventh-inning single from Edgardo
Alfonzo, the Mets, who also received a ninth-inning home run from
Brian McRae, rallied to spoil Sanchez's first game against the
organization that signed him out of the Dominican Republic in 1992.

   But had Kotsay not thrown two balls away on successive
fifth-inning hits, or had first-base umpire Bill Hohn ruled McRae
out on a disputed pickoff attempt in the seventh, the result might
have been different.

   That Jones (6-3) was around to lead the comeback and pick up the
victory was testament to the faith Manager Bobby Valentine has in
him. Jones allowed three runs and six hits over his first two
innings. But from the third through the seventh, he allowed only
one more hit. He has won five consecutive decisions.

   The Mets, meanwhile, waited to capitalize on their opponents'
mistakes. Sure enough, Kotsay _ like Sanchez, one of 13 Marlin
rookies _ obliged by making consecutive high throws for errors in a
two-run fifth that cut the Marlins' lead to 3-2.

   The first error came on a two-out double over first by Rey
Ordonez, Kotsay's throw from the right-field line sailing over
second base. That enabled Carlos Baerga, who had singled to open
the inning, to score from first with the Mets' first run.

   Jones singled to right on Sanchez's very next pitch, with Kotsay
overthrowing first base in a vain attempt to retire Jones to end
the inning. Instead, the ball wound up in the Florida dugout,
Ordonez scored from second, and the Mets trailed by a run.

   An inning later, Piazza gave the Mets a 3-3 tie with his third
homer with the team and his 12th of the season.

   In the seventh, McRae drew a one-out walk, the only pass Sanchez
issued. On an 0-1 count to Ordonez, Sanchez appeared to have picked
McRae off first. But Hohn ruled him safe.

   Sanchez (3-3) eventually struck Ordonez out. But Jones, who was
2-for-17 coming into the game, singled to left. On came Brian
Edmonson in relief of Sanchez, and Alfonzo followed with a single
up the middle. The Mets (36-24) held on to win for the 17th time in
the last 24 games.

   INSIDE PITCH:

   Bernard Gilkey went 0-for-4 and is now 0-for his last 25. ...
John Franco pitched a scoreless ninth for his 14th save. The
appearance was Franco's 400th as a Met. One more, and he ties Tom
Seaver's franchise record. ... Wayne Kirby joined the Mets
Thursday, one day after General Manager Steve Phillips sent
minor-league infielder Shawn Gilbert and a player to be named to
the Cardinals for the 34-year-old outfielder, who was at Class AAA
Memphis awaiting a trade or a call-up. A career .254 hitter over
parts of seven major-league seasons with the Indians and Dodgers,
Kirby will take Rich Becker's place on the roster. Becker, who was
hitting .190 with 42 strikeouts in 49 games, was designated for
assignment on Wednesday. ``He does the things we thought Rich could
do,'' Phillips said of Kirby, who like Becker hits left-handed and
can play all three outfield positions. Manager Bobby Valentine said
of Kirby, ``He's tough to strike out.'' What bothered the Mets most
about Becker was the way he was striking out. ``He just sort of
stopped swinging,'' Valentine said. ``He was just taking so much,
and it was frustrating to see. He couldn't figure out where the
outside corner was. He kept thinking everything was outside.''
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0437 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:34 ',
			header: '
A5788 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NY-PLAYGROUND-SAFETY-     06-11 0798
',
			slug: ' BC-NY-PLAYGROUND-SAFETY-450&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
SURVEY FINDS MANY PLAYGROUNDS CONTAIN HAZARDS 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ For New York City parents, the neighborhood
playground is an oasis, a place for children to run, climb, swing
and shout that transcends the harried congestion of urban life.

   But according to a study released Thursday, the playground is
also a place where children can get hurt.

   ``Far too many playgrounds contain hazards that can injure and
even kill,'' said the report by the New York Public Interest
Research Group, which surveyed 46 municipal playgrounds across the
city and found that all but one had equipment that could cause
bumps, bruises and broken bones.

   The study, released in conjunction with a national survey of
playground safety by the Consumer Federation of America, another
nonprofit advocacy group, found that New York City playgrounds were
no worse, and in some ways were safer, than others across the
United States.

   But the authors of the city report said that playground hazards
were a critical problem in Manhattan and the more congested parts
of the other boroughs, since the pressures of apartment living and
the scarcity of outdoor space make the playground a more central
part of growing up in the city than it is in most of the nation.

   ``Few of us have back yards, and that means we simply have to
rely on public parks and playgrounds,'' said Tracy Shelton, a
lawyer with the New York Public Interest Group who headed the
study. Among the group's recommendations were mandatory national
guidelines for playground-equipment design _ already proposed by
the Consumer Federation of America _ and greater care by the city
in selecting and when necessary replacing its slides, swings and
other equipment.

   The recommendations seemed unlikely to change the policies of
the New York City Department of Parks. Henry Stern, the parks
commissioner, said Thursday that the two advocacy groups were
``scaring up demons in a way that is very unjustified.''

   ``It would be a shame if any mother kept her child from using a
city playground because of misguided fears,'' he said, adding that
every city playground had been designed in accordance with
voluntary safety guidelines issued by the federal Consumer Products
Safety Commission, although those guidelines had changed over the
years.

   ``Our playgrounds are among the best in the country,'' Stern
said, adding that creating mandatory government rules for equipment
design ``would lead to playground cops walking around with tape
measures.''

   ``It would be the last gasp of Big Brotherism,'' he said.

   Still, the report released Thursday provided a catalog of
potential hazards, and found that some of the city's most popular
playgrounds ranked among the most troublesome.

   Ms. Shelton, the lawyer, described the findings at a news
conference in the Columbus Park playground, three blocks northeast
of City Hall, where boisterous crowds of elementary schoolchildren
bounded and climbed over equipment that the advocacy group said
made the playground the most dangerous in its survey.

   A slide in that park towers 10 feet over the ground, 4 feet
higher than would be allowed under the guidelines recommended in
the report. Other hazards cited by the advocacy group include a
swinging trapeze-style metal bar less than 4 feet off the ground
that could cause welts or bruises; a platform surrounded by wooden
slats in which a child's head could become trapped; and a
chain-link climbing device that might inflict a variety of scrapes,
cuts and bruises.

   Among other playgrounds on a list of hazardous sites are those
in Battery Park, Carl Schurz Park and John Jay Park in Manhattan,
Howard Van Dohlen Park in Queens and Clove Lakes Park on Staten
Island.

   Even at their worst, according to both Ms. Shelton and Stern,
the city's playgrounds are safer than many that were used years ago
by people now raising children of their own. Back then, children
routinely arrived home with torn clothing and bloodied knees caused
by creaking metal equipment and hardscrabble surfaces. Among the
most effective safety improvements have been rubberized surfaces
underfoot at playgrounds to cushion falls.

   But the advocacy group said that in more than 30 percent of the
playgrounds in the survey, the areas beneath slides, swings and
other equipment were not sufficiently covered by rubber surfaces.
It said slightly more than half of the slides and climbing devices
in playgrounds were higher than 6 feet, and just over 40 percent
had swing sets that were hazardous, often because the swings were
too close together or had rigid seats.
',
			body: '


  (lb) 
 By THOMAS J. LUECK   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ For New York City parents, the neighborhood
playground is an oasis, a place for children to run, climb, swing
and shout that transcends the harried congestion of urban life.

   But according to a study released Thursday, the playground is
also a place where children can get hurt.

   ``Far too many playgrounds contain hazards that can injure and
even kill,'' said the report by the New York Public Interest
Research Group, which surveyed 46 municipal playgrounds across the
city and found that all but one had equipment that could cause
bumps, bruises and broken bones.

   The study, released in conjunction with a national survey of
playground safety by the Consumer Federation of America, another
nonprofit advocacy group, found that New York City playgrounds were
no worse, and in some ways were safer, than others across the
United States.

   But the authors of the city report said that playground hazards
were a critical problem in Manhattan and the more congested parts
of the other boroughs, since the pressures of apartment living and
the scarcity of outdoor space make the playground a more central
part of growing up in the city than it is in most of the nation.

   ``Few of us have back yards, and that means we simply have to
rely on public parks and playgrounds,'' said Tracy Shelton, a
lawyer with the New York Public Interest Group who headed the
study. Among the group's recommendations were mandatory national
guidelines for playground-equipment design _ already proposed by
the Consumer Federation of America _ and greater care by the city
in selecting and when necessary replacing its slides, swings and
other equipment.

   The recommendations seemed unlikely to change the policies of
the New York City Department of Parks. Henry Stern, the parks
commissioner, said Thursday that the two advocacy groups were
``scaring up demons in a way that is very unjustified.''

   ``It would be a shame if any mother kept her child from using a
city playground because of misguided fears,'' he said, adding that
every city playground had been designed in accordance with
voluntary safety guidelines issued by the federal Consumer Products
Safety Commission, although those guidelines had changed over the
years.

   ``Our playgrounds are among the best in the country,'' Stern
said, adding that creating mandatory government rules for equipment
design ``would lead to playground cops walking around with tape
measures.''

   ``It would be the last gasp of Big Brotherism,'' he said.

   Still, the report released Thursday provided a catalog of
potential hazards, and found that some of the city's most popular
playgrounds ranked among the most troublesome.

   Ms. Shelton, the lawyer, described the findings at a news
conference in the Columbus Park playground, three blocks northeast
of City Hall, where boisterous crowds of elementary schoolchildren
bounded and climbed over equipment that the advocacy group said
made the playground the most dangerous in its survey.

   A slide in that park towers 10 feet over the ground, 4 feet
higher than would be allowed under the guidelines recommended in
the report. Other hazards cited by the advocacy group include a
swinging trapeze-style metal bar less than 4 feet off the ground
that could cause welts or bruises; a platform surrounded by wooden
slats in which a child's head could become trapped; and a
chain-link climbing device that might inflict a variety of scrapes,
cuts and bruises.

   Among other playgrounds on a list of hazardous sites are those
in Battery Park, Carl Schurz Park and John Jay Park in Manhattan,
Howard Van Dohlen Park in Queens and Clove Lakes Park on Staten
Island.

   Even at their worst, according to both Ms. Shelton and Stern,
the city's playgrounds are safer than many that were used years ago
by people now raising children of their own. Back then, children
routinely arrived home with torn clothing and bloodied knees caused
by creaking metal equipment and hardscrabble surfaces. Among the
most effective safety improvements have been rubberized surfaces
underfoot at playgrounds to cushion falls.

   But the advocacy group said that in more than 30 percent of the
playgrounds in the survey, the areas beneath slides, swings and
other equipment were not sufficiently covered by rubber surfaces.
It said slightly more than half of the slides and climbing devices
in playgrounds were higher than 6 feet, and just over 40 percent
had swing sets that were hazardous, often because the swings were
too close together or had rigid seats.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0438 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:40 ',
			header: '
A5791 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-NJ-IMMIG-DEPORT-NYT &LR;      06-11 0516
',
			slug: ' BC-NJ-IMMIG-DEPORT-NYT ',
			headline: '
INS MOVES TO DEPORT PERSISTENT ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT 
',
			trailer: '
   ELIZABETH, N.J. _ The Immigration and Naturalization Service has
begun deportation proceedings _ again _ against a Chinese man who
has tried twice in the last five years to sneak into the United
States aboard smuggling ships that ran aground, the man's lawyers
said Thursday.

   In 1993, Wang Wu Dong was a passenger on the Golden Venture, a
freighter loaded with 286 illegal Chinese immigrants that ran
aground in New York City. He failed to win asylum, and was deported
only months before Congress passed a law in 1996 that would have
strengthened his case for asylum.

   Two weeks ago, Wang was a passenger on the Oops II, a powerboat
loaded with 23 illegal Chinese immigrants that ran aground off the
New Jersey shore. The immigration service has notified Wang that he
is not entitled to another hearing for asylum, based on a 1996 law
that calls for the deportation of any illegal immigrant who had
previously been deported.

   ``He is not going to appear in front of any judge, because the
INS wants to redeport him,'' said David Lee, a lawyer with The
Porges Law Firm in New York, which is representing 22 of the 23
immigrants on the Oops II. ``We will challenge this.''

   Lee spoke after nine of the 23 men _ not including Wang _ made
brief individual appearances before two immigration judges at a
detention center here. The rest of the detainees are expected to
make their appearances in court Friday.

   Lee said Thursday that the men admitted that they entered the
United States illegally on May 30 when their boat ran aground in
dense fog near the affluent town of Bay Head. But because the men
plan to seek asylum, Lee argued that the immigrants should be
released on $5,000 bond.

   Immigration-service lawyers opposed the men's release, saying
that their cases might be relevant to a continuing criminal
investigation into Chinese smuggling operations and that the men's
lives were in danger because they each owed up to $40,000 to the
smugglers.

   ``There is a clear historical record of Chinese being smuggled
into the U.S., being released by INS, and being held hostage by
smuggling groups in order to secure their smuggling fee,'' said
Russell Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the immigration service in
Washington.

   Judge Esmeralda Cabrera said that she was inclined to eventually
release the men on bond, but was unsure whether $5,000 was the
appropriate amount. She and Judge Mirlande Tadal ordered both sides
to return to court in two weeks with more information about the
immigrants, including testimony from any relatives they may have in
the United States.

   The nine men who appeared in court Thursday seemed calm and in
good health. Several of them said that a parent or an uncle had
arranged for them to be smuggled in. Most said that they had
relatives in the United States, including one who said that his
brother in Virginia was either applying for, or had already been
granted, asylum.
',
			body: '


  (lb) 
 By DAVID W. CHEN   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   ELIZABETH, N.J. _ The Immigration and Naturalization Service has
begun deportation proceedings _ again _ against a Chinese man who
has tried twice in the last five years to sneak into the United
States aboard smuggling ships that ran aground, the man's lawyers
said Thursday.

   In 1993, Wang Wu Dong was a passenger on the Golden Venture, a
freighter loaded with 286 illegal Chinese immigrants that ran
aground in New York City. He failed to win asylum, and was deported
only months before Congress passed a law in 1996 that would have
strengthened his case for asylum.

   Two weeks ago, Wang was a passenger on the Oops II, a powerboat
loaded with 23 illegal Chinese immigrants that ran aground off the
New Jersey shore. The immigration service has notified Wang that he
is not entitled to another hearing for asylum, based on a 1996 law
that calls for the deportation of any illegal immigrant who had
previously been deported.

   ``He is not going to appear in front of any judge, because the
INS wants to redeport him,'' said David Lee, a lawyer with The
Porges Law Firm in New York, which is representing 22 of the 23
immigrants on the Oops II. ``We will challenge this.''

   Lee spoke after nine of the 23 men _ not including Wang _ made
brief individual appearances before two immigration judges at a
detention center here. The rest of the detainees are expected to
make their appearances in court Friday.

   Lee said Thursday that the men admitted that they entered the
United States illegally on May 30 when their boat ran aground in
dense fog near the affluent town of Bay Head. But because the men
plan to seek asylum, Lee argued that the immigrants should be
released on $5,000 bond.

   Immigration-service lawyers opposed the men's release, saying
that their cases might be relevant to a continuing criminal
investigation into Chinese smuggling operations and that the men's
lives were in danger because they each owed up to $40,000 to the
smugglers.

   ``There is a clear historical record of Chinese being smuggled
into the U.S., being released by INS, and being held hostage by
smuggling groups in order to secure their smuggling fee,'' said
Russell Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the immigration service in
Washington.

   Judge Esmeralda Cabrera said that she was inclined to eventually
release the men on bond, but was unsure whether $5,000 was the
appropriate amount. She and Judge Mirlande Tadal ordered both sides
to return to court in two weeks with more information about the
immigrants, including testimony from any relatives they may have in
the United States.

   The nine men who appeared in court Thursday seemed calm and in
good health. Several of them said that a parent or an uncle had
arranged for them to be smuggled in. Most said that they had
relatives in the United States, including one who said that his
brother in Virginia was either applying for, or had already been
granted, asylum.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0439 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:42 ',
			header: '
A5795 &Cx1f; kan-z
r w &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-JUDGES-ETHICS-KAN &LR;      06-11 1022
',
			slug: ' BC-JUDGES-ETHICS-KAN ',
			headline: '
AT CONGRESSIONAL HEARING, JUDGES VOW TO INVESTIGATE ETHICAL
VIOLATIONS 
',
			trailer: '
   WASHINGTON _ Federal judges testifying before a House
subcommittee on Thursday promised to investigate widespread ethical
violations in the judiciary and to consider broader disclosure of
judges' assets. &QL;

   In particular, they pledged to study whether reforms enacted in
Kansas City last month should be extended to federal courthouses
across the nation. &QL;

   ``We recognize there could be a problem in this area,''
testified W. Terrell Hodges, chairman of the executive committee of
the U.S. Judicial Conference. &QL;

   Hodges fielded complaints from members of the House Judiciary
Committee's subcommittee on courts, including Rep. Zoe Lofgren. The
California Democrat criticized judges for financial conflicts and
for accepting free trips to seminars in resort locations. &QL;

   ``There is nothing more damaging to citizens' faith in the
country and in the due process of law than the belief, even if
inaccurate, that those who are trusted to judge have been
influenced by financial connections,'' Lofgren said. &QL;

   The hearing follows a series on judicial ethics published in
April by The Kansas City Star. The articles revealed that federal
judges in Kansas City and elsewhere presided over dozens of
lawsuits against companies in which they owned stock, despite laws
forbidding such conflicts. &QL;

   The series also showed that few people see judges' financial
disclosure statements because the judiciary imposes tight
restrictions on their release. And it showed that when judges break
ethics laws, they rarely face so much as a private reprimand. &QL;

   Sens. John Ashcroft of Missouri and Charles Grassley of Iowa
last week wrote to the court system's top administrator, arguing
that sweeping reform was needed to combat an alarming number of
ethical lapses. &QL;

   On Thursday, the debate moved to the other side of Capitol Hill.
A routine oversight hearing in the House gave congressmen an
opportunity to pose questions about the violations to Hodges, one
of the nation's highest-ranking judges. &QL;

   Hodges stressed that the judicial conference, which sets policy
for federal courts nationwide, had already written to judges across
the nation to highlight the violations uncovered by The Star. The
letters reminded judges that they must withdraw from any case in
which they have a financial interest, however small. &QL;

   Hodges said the newspaper series also raised ``provocative
issues'' by suggesting that judges' financial disclosure statements
should be more easily available. Currently, the statements are
available only in Washington, and anyone reviewing them must sign a
notarized statement and pay a fee. In addition, judges are notified
if someone requests their disclosure statement. &QL;

   Rep. Howard Coble, a North Carolina Republican, pointed out that
it is far easier to obtain disclosure statements filed by members
of Congress than by federal judges. Hodges agreed. &QL;

   ``That's not as easy an issue (to fix) as it might seem, because
of security concerns,'' Hodges said. &QL;

   He testified that inmates had misused the financial information
filed by judges, but he did not say how or offer any examples.
Reached later, court spokesmen could not document any instances in
which disclosure forms had been used to harm a judge. &QL;

   Kansas City judges last month voted to make lists of their stock
investments available for public review at the local clerk of
courts office. Unlike the system in place elsewhere in the country,
anyone may review the lists without providing identification, and
no one warns a judge about who is scrutinizing his or her
finances. &QL;

   ``That might be a very useful idea,'' Hodges said of the Kansas
City system, ``and our committees will be considering that.'' &QL;

   Coble asked the judges to keep Congress informed. &QL;

   Judge Rya W. Zobel, director of the Federal Judicial Center,
testified that the center is using the newspaper's series to train
new judges about their ethical responsibilities. At a recent
conference, Zobel said, each of the nation's chief judges gathered
to discuss the series' findings and explore solutions. &QL;

   The congressionally funded center is responsible for the
continuing education of federal judges. &QL;

   William H. Rehnquist, U.S. chief justice and head of the
Judicial Conference, did not attend Thursday's hearing. In a letter
to The Star this week, he declined to comment on the ethical lapses
by judges. &QL;

   Rehnquist wrote, however, that ``it is my understanding that the
Codes of Conduct committee and the Financial Disclosure Committee
of the Judicial Conference of the United States are reviewing the
matters raised in /{The Star/}'s articles.'' &QL;

   Also on Thursday, the consumer organization HALT wrote to the
subcommittee, calling for more congressional hearings into the
``very serious'' violations. &QL;

   ``It is difficult to imagine a more fundamental breach of
judicial integrity and the rights of litigants than the failure to
ensure that impartial, disinterested judges preside in matters
before the federal courts,'' said the letter, signed by James C.
Turner, executive director of HALT, which lobbies for legal
reform. &QL;

   ``On behalf of HALT's 50,000 members, I am requesting an
immediate congressional investigation.'' &QL;

   Turner wrote that judges make it unusually difficult to obtain
their disclosure reports. &QL;

   ``These burdensome and unnecessary requirements seem to be
designed to discourage access to financial information about
federal judges,'' Turner wrote, ``and are in marked contrast to the
open access that ethics laws require for members of Congress and
senior officials in the executive branch. &QL;

   The letter said the Washington-based organization was ``deeply
concerned'' by the pattern of violations and by the judiciary's
failure to unearth them itself. &QL;

   ``We hope you will share our concern,'' Turner wrote to the
committee, ``and will act promptly to correct this very serious
situation.'' &QL;
',
			body: '


   (For use by New York Times News Service clients)  
 JOSEPH STEPHENS  
 c. 1997 The Kansas City Star  

',
			paragraphs: '
   WASHINGTON _ Federal judges testifying before a House
subcommittee on Thursday promised to investigate widespread ethical
violations in the judiciary and to consider broader disclosure of
judges' assets. &QL;

   In particular, they pledged to study whether reforms enacted in
Kansas City last month should be extended to federal courthouses
across the nation. &QL;

   ``We recognize there could be a problem in this area,''
testified W. Terrell Hodges, chairman of the executive committee of
the U.S. Judicial Conference. &QL;

   Hodges fielded complaints from members of the House Judiciary
Committee's subcommittee on courts, including Rep. Zoe Lofgren. The
California Democrat criticized judges for financial conflicts and
for accepting free trips to seminars in resort locations. &QL;

   ``There is nothing more damaging to citizens' faith in the
country and in the due process of law than the belief, even if
inaccurate, that those who are trusted to judge have been
influenced by financial connections,'' Lofgren said. &QL;

   The hearing follows a series on judicial ethics published in
April by The Kansas City Star. The articles revealed that federal
judges in Kansas City and elsewhere presided over dozens of
lawsuits against companies in which they owned stock, despite laws
forbidding such conflicts. &QL;

   The series also showed that few people see judges' financial
disclosure statements because the judiciary imposes tight
restrictions on their release. And it showed that when judges break
ethics laws, they rarely face so much as a private reprimand. &QL;

   Sens. John Ashcroft of Missouri and Charles Grassley of Iowa
last week wrote to the court system's top administrator, arguing
that sweeping reform was needed to combat an alarming number of
ethical lapses. &QL;

   On Thursday, the debate moved to the other side of Capitol Hill.
A routine oversight hearing in the House gave congressmen an
opportunity to pose questions about the violations to Hodges, one
of the nation's highest-ranking judges. &QL;

   Hodges stressed that the judicial conference, which sets policy
for federal courts nationwide, had already written to judges across
the nation to highlight the violations uncovered by The Star. The
letters reminded judges that they must withdraw from any case in
which they have a financial interest, however small. &QL;

   Hodges said the newspaper series also raised ``provocative
issues'' by suggesting that judges' financial disclosure statements
should be more easily available. Currently, the statements are
available only in Washington, and anyone reviewing them must sign a
notarized statement and pay a fee. In addition, judges are notified
if someone requests their disclosure statement. &QL;

   Rep. Howard Coble, a North Carolina Republican, pointed out that
it is far easier to obtain disclosure statements filed by members
of Congress than by federal judges. Hodges agreed. &QL;

   ``That's not as easy an issue (to fix) as it might seem, because
of security concerns,'' Hodges said. &QL;

   He testified that inmates had misused the financial information
filed by judges, but he did not say how or offer any examples.
Reached later, court spokesmen could not document any instances in
which disclosure forms had been used to harm a judge. &QL;

   Kansas City judges last month voted to make lists of their stock
investments available for public review at the local clerk of
courts office. Unlike the system in place elsewhere in the country,
anyone may review the lists without providing identification, and
no one warns a judge about who is scrutinizing his or her
finances. &QL;

   ``That might be a very useful idea,'' Hodges said of the Kansas
City system, ``and our committees will be considering that.'' &QL;

   Coble asked the judges to keep Congress informed. &QL;

   Judge Rya W. Zobel, director of the Federal Judicial Center,
testified that the center is using the newspaper's series to train
new judges about their ethical responsibilities. At a recent
conference, Zobel said, each of the nation's chief judges gathered
to discuss the series' findings and explore solutions. &QL;

   The congressionally funded center is responsible for the
continuing education of federal judges. &QL;

   William H. Rehnquist, U.S. chief justice and head of the
Judicial Conference, did not attend Thursday's hearing. In a letter
to The Star this week, he declined to comment on the ethical lapses
by judges. &QL;

   Rehnquist wrote, however, that ``it is my understanding that the
Codes of Conduct committee and the Financial Disclosure Committee
of the Judicial Conference of the United States are reviewing the
matters raised in /{The Star/}'s articles.'' &QL;

   Also on Thursday, the consumer organization HALT wrote to the
subcommittee, calling for more congressional hearings into the
``very serious'' violations. &QL;

   ``It is difficult to imagine a more fundamental breach of
judicial integrity and the rights of litigants than the failure to
ensure that impartial, disinterested judges preside in matters
before the federal courts,'' said the letter, signed by James C.
Turner, executive director of HALT, which lobbies for legal
reform. &QL;

   ``On behalf of HALT's 50,000 members, I am requesting an
immediate congressional investigation.'' &QL;

   Turner wrote that judges make it unusually difficult to obtain
their disclosure reports. &QL;

   ``These burdensome and unnecessary requirements seem to be
designed to discourage access to financial information about
federal judges,'' Turner wrote, ``and are in marked contrast to the
open access that ethics laws require for members of Congress and
senior officials in the executive branch. &QL;

   The letter said the Washington-based organization was ``deeply
concerned'' by the pattern of violations and by the judiciary's
failure to unearth them itself. &QL;

   ``We hope you will share our concern,'' Turner wrote to the
committee, ``and will act promptly to correct this very serious
situation.'' &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0440 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:42 ',
			header: '
A5797 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-BBO-YANKS-EXPOS-375&AMP;A     06-11 0760
',
			slug: ' BC-BBO-YANKS-EXPOS-375&AMP;ADD-NYT ',
			headline: '
YANKS LOSE BIG LEAD _ AND END NINE-GAME WIN STREAK 
',
			trailer: '
   MONTREAL _ Just a few hours after they learned their leading
hitter, Bernie Williams, would miss the rest of this month, the New
York Yankees lost their starting pitcher, Andy Pettitte, to a
possible injury Thursday night. Then they lost a big lead, as well
as the ball game, and ended their nine-game winning streak.

   Pettitte left the game against the Montreal Expos in the
seventh, with the Yankees winning by four runs. The Expos added six
runs against four Yankee relievers, and won, 7-5, with Vladimir
Guerrero hitting a three-run double off Darren Holmes to push
across the decisive runs.

   The Yankees were within nine outs of winning their 10th
consecutive game. Instead, they will return home on Friday to face
Cleveland on the heels of a disappointing loss, without Williams in
the lineup and with Pettitte's condition needing further
clarification.

   After Thursday night's game, Manager Joe Torre said Pettitte had
been taken out of the game because he seemed to be favoring his
left leg from the sixth inning on. Pettitte said it felt as if he
had ``a catch'' in his hip but added that he did not think it was a
big deal and that he did not expect to miss a start. Torre was more
cautious in his assessment, and, in any case, the Yankees will be
taking a closer look at Pettitte on Friday to see if they can
pinpoint the problem.

   Pettitte carried a 5-0 lead into the seventh inning. But after
Guerrero and Rondell White doubled, one run scoring, Torre marched
to the mound, bringing along the umpire. There was nobody warming
up. Torre suspected Pettitte was hurt.

   Torre stood directly in front of Pettitte, asking him questions.
Pettitte appeared to be reassuring Torre. Then the manager turned
and asked Joe Girardi, the catcher, a question, and judging by his
body language, Girardi did not want to be drawn into the
discussion. Torre took the ball from Pettitte, who has insisted all
year that he feels fine and that his back has not bothered him, as
it did last year.

   Pettitte walked off, and after that the Yankee bullpen fell
apart, perhaps a residual effect from too little work over the last
10 days, a period in which the Yankee starters thrived and
regularly pitched into the late innings.

   Mike Stanton, the first reliever to follow Pettitte, walked two
and gave up a hit. Jeff Nelson (3-3) allowed a two-run double to
pinch-hitter Brad Fullmer, closing the lead to 5-4. An intentional
walk loaded the bases. Graeme Lloyd relieved Nelson and struck out
pinch-hitter Scott Livingstone. Two outs.

   The right-handed-hitting Guerrero was next, and Torre, wanting a
right-hander, called for Holmes, who had not pitched since May 31.
Guerrero, who struggles to hit breaking balls, checked his swing on
the first pitch _ the Yankees appealed unsuccessfully _ and Holmes
just missed off the outside corner. With a 2-0 count, Holmes had to
challenge Guerrero with fastballs.

   Guerrero hit the first one for a long foul. On the next one, he
ripped a ball to right-center, far beyond the reach of center
fielder Chad Curtis. Three runs scored, giving Montreal a 7-5 lead.

   The loss was only the 14th this season for the Yankees, who have
won 46 of 60 games. Pete Mackanin, the third-base coach for the
Expos, has seen the Atlanta Braves this year, as well as the
National League's best teams. The Yankees, he said, are far better
than anybody else Montreal has played.

   Carl Pavano, a highly touted young pitcher acquired from Boston
in the deal that sent Pedro Martinez to Boston, dominated the
Yankees early, striking out five of the first nine batters and
allowing only one hit in the first four innings.

   Tino Martinez grounded to short to open the fifth inning, a sure
out, but Ryan McGuire, Montreal's first baseman, simply missed the
throw. Blood in the water for the Yankees.

   Darryl Strawberry walked on four pitches. Curtis dumped a
blooper over second base, loading the bases. Then Scott Brosius
ripped a two-run single, Curtis stopping at second. Curtis and
Brosius pulled off a double steal on the next pitch. Both runners
scored when Girardi blooped a single to right.

   Martinez slammed a home run in the sixth, his 10th, giving the
Yankees and Pettitte a 5-0 advantage, ordinarily a comfortable
margin in this stunning season. But not Thursday night.

   &QL;
',
			body: '


  (lh) 
 By BUSTER OLNEY   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   MONTREAL _ Just a few hours after they learned their leading
hitter, Bernie Williams, would miss the rest of this month, the New
York Yankees lost their starting pitcher, Andy Pettitte, to a
possible injury Thursday night. Then they lost a big lead, as well
as the ball game, and ended their nine-game winning streak.

   Pettitte left the game against the Montreal Expos in the
seventh, with the Yankees winning by four runs. The Expos added six
runs against four Yankee relievers, and won, 7-5, with Vladimir
Guerrero hitting a three-run double off Darren Holmes to push
across the decisive runs.

   The Yankees were within nine outs of winning their 10th
consecutive game. Instead, they will return home on Friday to face
Cleveland on the heels of a disappointing loss, without Williams in
the lineup and with Pettitte's condition needing further
clarification.

   After Thursday night's game, Manager Joe Torre said Pettitte had
been taken out of the game because he seemed to be favoring his
left leg from the sixth inning on. Pettitte said it felt as if he
had ``a catch'' in his hip but added that he did not think it was a
big deal and that he did not expect to miss a start. Torre was more
cautious in his assessment, and, in any case, the Yankees will be
taking a closer look at Pettitte on Friday to see if they can
pinpoint the problem.

   Pettitte carried a 5-0 lead into the seventh inning. But after
Guerrero and Rondell White doubled, one run scoring, Torre marched
to the mound, bringing along the umpire. There was nobody warming
up. Torre suspected Pettitte was hurt.

   Torre stood directly in front of Pettitte, asking him questions.
Pettitte appeared to be reassuring Torre. Then the manager turned
and asked Joe Girardi, the catcher, a question, and judging by his
body language, Girardi did not want to be drawn into the
discussion. Torre took the ball from Pettitte, who has insisted all
year that he feels fine and that his back has not bothered him, as
it did last year.

   Pettitte walked off, and after that the Yankee bullpen fell
apart, perhaps a residual effect from too little work over the last
10 days, a period in which the Yankee starters thrived and
regularly pitched into the late innings.

   Mike Stanton, the first reliever to follow Pettitte, walked two
and gave up a hit. Jeff Nelson (3-3) allowed a two-run double to
pinch-hitter Brad Fullmer, closing the lead to 5-4. An intentional
walk loaded the bases. Graeme Lloyd relieved Nelson and struck out
pinch-hitter Scott Livingstone. Two outs.

   The right-handed-hitting Guerrero was next, and Torre, wanting a
right-hander, called for Holmes, who had not pitched since May 31.
Guerrero, who struggles to hit breaking balls, checked his swing on
the first pitch _ the Yankees appealed unsuccessfully _ and Holmes
just missed off the outside corner. With a 2-0 count, Holmes had to
challenge Guerrero with fastballs.

   Guerrero hit the first one for a long foul. On the next one, he
ripped a ball to right-center, far beyond the reach of center
fielder Chad Curtis. Three runs scored, giving Montreal a 7-5 lead.

   The loss was only the 14th this season for the Yankees, who have
won 46 of 60 games. Pete Mackanin, the third-base coach for the
Expos, has seen the Atlanta Braves this year, as well as the
National League's best teams. The Yankees, he said, are far better
than anybody else Montreal has played.

   Carl Pavano, a highly touted young pitcher acquired from Boston
in the deal that sent Pedro Martinez to Boston, dominated the
Yankees early, striking out five of the first nine batters and
allowing only one hit in the first four innings.

   Tino Martinez grounded to short to open the fifth inning, a sure
out, but Ryan McGuire, Montreal's first baseman, simply missed the
throw. Blood in the water for the Yankees.

   Darryl Strawberry walked on four pitches. Curtis dumped a
blooper over second base, loading the bases. Then Scott Brosius
ripped a two-run single, Curtis stopping at second. Curtis and
Brosius pulled off a double steal on the next pitch. Both runners
scored when Girardi blooped a single to right.

   Martinez slammed a home run in the sixth, his 10th, giving the
Yankees and Pettitte a 5-0 advantage, ordinarily a comfortable
margin in this stunning season. But not Thursday night.

   &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0441 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:47 ',
			header: '
A5805 &Cx1f; taf-z
u f &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-ADVERTISING-NOTES-NYT     06-11 0541
',
			slug: ' BC-ADVERTISING-NOTES-NYT ',
			headline: '
ACCOUNTS AND PEOPLE IN THE ADVERTISING WORLD 
',
			trailer: '
   President Promoted at Unit of Omnicom

   Thomas Harrison, 50, president of the Diversified Agency
Services division of Omnicom Group in New York, is being promoted
to chairman and chief executive. John Wren, 46, will relinquish
those duties and continue as chairman and chief executive of
Omnicom. Harrison joined the division in 1992. It is composed of
agencies that specialize in public relations, direct response,
sales promotion, medical communications and recruitment
advertising.

   Fleishman-Hillard Wins Eight Silver Anvils

   For the second consecutive year, Fleishman-Hillard Inc. won the
most top honors, called Silver Anvils, at the annual awards
presentation sponsored by the Public Relations Society of America
in New York.

   At the 54th annual award show Thursday night, various offices of
Fleishman-Hillard, a unit of Omnicom Group, won eight Silver Anvils
for 1997. Various offices of Ketchum Public Relations Worldwide,
also a unit of Omnicom, won five.

   The Best of Silver Anvil award went to Reynolds Metals Co. in
Richmond, Va., and its agencies _ Amann &AMP; Associates Public
Relations in Richmond and Creamer Dickson Basford in New York _ for
a public service program designed to recruit 50,000 volunteers for
Meals on Wheels.

   Lois/USA Forms Health Care Unit

   Lois/USA Inc. in New York has formed Lois/Health Care, which
will operate as part of the Lois/EJL New York agency and specialize
in health-related accounts.

   Ray Hilton, 41, executive vice president and group managing
director at Lois/EJL New York, will be executive vice president and
managing director at Lois/Health Care, which opens with billings
estimated at $30 million from clients like 2C Optics, Decibel
Instruments and Orthodontic Centers of America.

   Accounts

   Toymax Inc., Plainview, N.Y., a subsidiary of Toymax
International Inc., to Avrett, Free &AMP; Ginsberg, New York, to handle
its account, which had been handled in-house. Billings were
estimated at $13 million.

   Foundation Health Systems Inc., Woodland Hills, Calif., to
Cadwell Davis Partners, New York, to handle the managed-care
company's consolidated account, which had been handled by various
agencies. Billings were not disclosed, but past spending has been
estimated at $11 million to $12 million.

   DeGeorge Home Alliance Inc., Cheshire, Conn., to Friedland
Jacobs Communications, Burbank, Calif., as the first agency to
handle advertising for the home financing and construction support
company. Billings were estimated at $5 million to $7 million.

   T.G. Madison, Atlanta, was awarded two accounts with combined
billings estimated at $10 million: American Cancer Society,
Atlanta, for its national office, and Double-Cola Co.-USA,
Chattanooga, Tenn. Both had previously been handled on a project
basis.

   Wilmington Trust Corp., Wilmington, Del., to Korey Kay &AMP;
Partners, New York, to handle its integrated marketing account,
which had been handled by Barasch, Galterio &AMP; Partners, Wilmington.
Billings were estimated at $7 million.
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: Va., Calif., Conn., Ga., Tenn., Del.)  (lb) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   President Promoted at Unit of Omnicom

   Thomas Harrison, 50, president of the Diversified Agency
Services division of Omnicom Group in New York, is being promoted
to chairman and chief executive. John Wren, 46, will relinquish
those duties and continue as chairman and chief executive of
Omnicom. Harrison joined the division in 1992. It is composed of
agencies that specialize in public relations, direct response,
sales promotion, medical communications and recruitment
advertising.

   Fleishman-Hillard Wins Eight Silver Anvils

   For the second consecutive year, Fleishman-Hillard Inc. won the
most top honors, called Silver Anvils, at the annual awards
presentation sponsored by the Public Relations Society of America
in New York.

   At the 54th annual award show Thursday night, various offices of
Fleishman-Hillard, a unit of Omnicom Group, won eight Silver Anvils
for 1997. Various offices of Ketchum Public Relations Worldwide,
also a unit of Omnicom, won five.

   The Best of Silver Anvil award went to Reynolds Metals Co. in
Richmond, Va., and its agencies _ Amann &AMP; Associates Public
Relations in Richmond and Creamer Dickson Basford in New York _ for
a public service program designed to recruit 50,000 volunteers for
Meals on Wheels.

   Lois/USA Forms Health Care Unit

   Lois/USA Inc. in New York has formed Lois/Health Care, which
will operate as part of the Lois/EJL New York agency and specialize
in health-related accounts.

   Ray Hilton, 41, executive vice president and group managing
director at Lois/EJL New York, will be executive vice president and
managing director at Lois/Health Care, which opens with billings
estimated at $30 million from clients like 2C Optics, Decibel
Instruments and Orthodontic Centers of America.

   Accounts

   Toymax Inc., Plainview, N.Y., a subsidiary of Toymax
International Inc., to Avrett, Free &AMP; Ginsberg, New York, to handle
its account, which had been handled in-house. Billings were
estimated at $13 million.

   Foundation Health Systems Inc., Woodland Hills, Calif., to
Cadwell Davis Partners, New York, to handle the managed-care
company's consolidated account, which had been handled by various
agencies. Billings were not disclosed, but past spending has been
estimated at $11 million to $12 million.

   DeGeorge Home Alliance Inc., Cheshire, Conn., to Friedland
Jacobs Communications, Burbank, Calif., as the first agency to
handle advertising for the home financing and construction support
company. Billings were estimated at $5 million to $7 million.

   T.G. Madison, Atlanta, was awarded two accounts with combined
billings estimated at $10 million: American Cancer Society,
Atlanta, for its national office, and Double-Cola Co.-USA,
Chattanooga, Tenn. Both had previously been handled on a project
basis.

   Wilmington Trust Corp., Wilmington, Del., to Korey Kay &AMP;
Partners, New York, to handle its integrated marketing account,
which had been handled by Barasch, Galterio &AMP; Partners, Wilmington.
Billings were estimated at $7 million.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0442 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:51 ',
			header: '
A5817 &Cx1f; taf-z
u s &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-FENCING-PRODIGY-NYT &LR;      06-11 0588
',
			slug: ' BC-FENCING-PRODIGY-NYT ',
			headline: '
A SABER IN ONE HAND, A DIPLOMA IN THE OTHER 
',
			trailer: '
   NEW YORK _ In April, 19-year-old Akhnaten Spencer-El of Harlem
had two alternatives. He could take part in the world junior
fencing championships in Valencia, Venezuela, or he could stay home
and study to improve his high school grades.

   The decision was easy.

   ``I wasn't a good student,'' he said the other day. ``I was
bored with things at school. But when I started fencing seriously,
I realized I had to have something else for the future. I realized
I wanted to graduate with my high school class.''

   He was not doing well enough to graduate, but the Peter
Westbrook Foundation provided tutors, and Spencer-El provided the
desire. So he passed on Venezuela, stayed home and studied, and now
he has the best of both worlds.

   On June 24, he will graduate from Central Park East Secondary
School at 106th Street and Madison Avenue. In the fall, he will
become a freshman at St. John's. And in the U.S. senior fencing
championships, which begin Friday morning at the Armory Track and
Field Center at 168th Street and Fort Washington Avenue, he will be
a favorite in the men's saber.

   Spencer-El, known as Akhi (pronounced Ocky), is one of the
precocious inner-city fencers recruited and nurtured by the
46-year-old Westbrook, a six-time Olympian. Some of the others are
17-year-old Ivan Lee of Brooklyn in men's saber and the Smarts of
Brooklyn _ 19-year-old Keeth, who attends St. John's, in men's
saber and his 18-year-old sister, Erin, who attends Barnard, in
women's foil.

   Westbrook tries to show inner-city youngsters an alternative to
street life. Every Saturday, he brings 80 to 100 of them to the
Fencers Club of New York on West 71st Street to learn, without
cost, the once-elitist sport. Among those who have given financial
support to his foundation are Bill Cosby and a former New York
University fencer, Neil Diamond.

   Spencer-El started fencing five years ago. ``I picked up a saber
and fell in love with it,'' he said. ``I like competing. I like the
fact that this is a one-man sport, a fighting sport, a physical and
mental sport. If you lose, you can come back in the same match and
beat the person you lost to. I like that. I've learned not to get
upset when I lose. I've learned how to beat my opponent mentally.''

   He learned so well that in five World Cup junior tournaments
from October to March, against the best teen-agers in the world, he
finished second, second, third, fifth and seventh. He has won every
senior competition he has entered in the United States this year.

   ``Sometimes I look back and still can't believe it,'' he said.
``I used to play baseball. If I had stuck with it, where would I be
now? Not everyone goes to the next level in baseball, and how long
can you play it? People can fence into their 50s and 60s.''

   Westbrook looks at Spencer-El in wonder.

   ``I used to beat him all the time,'' Westbrook said. ``Now he
beats me most of the time. A talent like that comes along maybe
every 25 years. A saber fencer reaches his peak when he's 33 or 34,
and here he is so good and so young. I predict that next year,
he'll be first, second or third in the world junior
championships.''

   CROSSED SWORDS:

   The national championships have drawn 291 entries in the 10
individual events and 56 entries in the team events. Competition
will run from 8:30 a.m. to about 5 p.m. daily. Admission is free.
',
			body: '


  (lh) 
 By FRANK LITSKY   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   NEW YORK _ In April, 19-year-old Akhnaten Spencer-El of Harlem
had two alternatives. He could take part in the world junior
fencing championships in Valencia, Venezuela, or he could stay home
and study to improve his high school grades.

   The decision was easy.

   ``I wasn't a good student,'' he said the other day. ``I was
bored with things at school. But when I started fencing seriously,
I realized I had to have something else for the future. I realized
I wanted to graduate with my high school class.''

   He was not doing well enough to graduate, but the Peter
Westbrook Foundation provided tutors, and Spencer-El provided the
desire. So he passed on Venezuela, stayed home and studied, and now
he has the best of both worlds.

   On June 24, he will graduate from Central Park East Secondary
School at 106th Street and Madison Avenue. In the fall, he will
become a freshman at St. John's. And in the U.S. senior fencing
championships, which begin Friday morning at the Armory Track and
Field Center at 168th Street and Fort Washington Avenue, he will be
a favorite in the men's saber.

   Spencer-El, known as Akhi (pronounced Ocky), is one of the
precocious inner-city fencers recruited and nurtured by the
46-year-old Westbrook, a six-time Olympian. Some of the others are
17-year-old Ivan Lee of Brooklyn in men's saber and the Smarts of
Brooklyn _ 19-year-old Keeth, who attends St. John's, in men's
saber and his 18-year-old sister, Erin, who attends Barnard, in
women's foil.

   Westbrook tries to show inner-city youngsters an alternative to
street life. Every Saturday, he brings 80 to 100 of them to the
Fencers Club of New York on West 71st Street to learn, without
cost, the once-elitist sport. Among those who have given financial
support to his foundation are Bill Cosby and a former New York
University fencer, Neil Diamond.

   Spencer-El started fencing five years ago. ``I picked up a saber
and fell in love with it,'' he said. ``I like competing. I like the
fact that this is a one-man sport, a fighting sport, a physical and
mental sport. If you lose, you can come back in the same match and
beat the person you lost to. I like that. I've learned not to get
upset when I lose. I've learned how to beat my opponent mentally.''

   He learned so well that in five World Cup junior tournaments
from October to March, against the best teen-agers in the world, he
finished second, second, third, fifth and seventh. He has won every
senior competition he has entered in the United States this year.

   ``Sometimes I look back and still can't believe it,'' he said.
``I used to play baseball. If I had stuck with it, where would I be
now? Not everyone goes to the next level in baseball, and how long
can you play it? People can fence into their 50s and 60s.''

   Westbrook looks at Spencer-El in wonder.

   ``I used to beat him all the time,'' Westbrook said. ``Now he
beats me most of the time. A talent like that comes along maybe
every 25 years. A saber fencer reaches his peak when he's 33 or 34,
and here he is so good and so young. I predict that next year,
he'll be first, second or third in the world junior
championships.''

   CROSSED SWORDS:

   The national championships have drawn 291 entries in the 10
individual events and 56 entries in the team events. Competition
will run from 8:30 a.m. to about 5 p.m. daily. Admission is free.
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0443 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:53 ',
			header: '
A5819 &Cx1f; taf-z
u v &Cx13;  &Cx11;  PM-BUDGET-NYT     06-11 1809
',
			slug: '',
			headline: '',
			trailer: '
   &UR; For FRIDAY PMs &LR;

   Here are the top news stories from The New York Times News
Service for PMs of Friday, June 12.

   The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time.
To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for reruns
on AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPI
DataNews.

   &UR; INTERNATIONAL _ (Moved in ``i'' category)  &LR;

   KOSOVO-LANDMINES (Kukes, Albania) _ A chilling new element has
become part of the Serbian campaign against ethnic Albanians: Land
mines. By Chris Hedges.

   (ART ADV: Locator map has been sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   IRAN-POLITICS (Cairo, Egypt) _ The start of a public corruption
trial of the mayor of Tehran has helped to turn up the political
temperature in Iran at a time when strains between conservatives
and moderates are on increasingly vivid display. By Douglas Jehl.

   ETHIOPIA-ERITREA (Nairobi, Kenya) _ The undeclared war between
Eritrea and Ethiopia is a bewildering study in contradictions. It
is a war that both heads of state maintain they do not want, set
off by a minor land dispute both sides agree could easily be
settled by historians and cartographical experts. Yet neither Prime
Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia nor President Isaias Afewerki of
Eritrea appears able to stop the bloodshed. By James C. McKinley
Jr.

   (ART ADV: Graphic has been sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   &UR; NATIONAL _ GENERAL (Moved in ``a'' category) &LR;

   REED-POLITICS (Atlanta) _ With the Republican primary season in
full bloom, Ralph Reed and his new consulting firm sit atop the
fault line between the pragmatists and the purists within America's
religious right. By Kevin Sack.

   MAGAZINE-FABRICATION (New York) _ Examining the breadth and
depth of the journalistic fabrications by Stephen Glass, the New
Republic writer whose case has prompted a flurry of soul-searching
in the news media. By Robin Pogrebin.

   CLINTON-JONES (Undated) _ In rejecting a possible settlement of
her sexual misconduct lawsuit against President Clinton, Paula
Jones was warned by her lawyers last August that she was risking
``devastation'' in pursuing a claim that could sully her
reputation. By Francis X. Clines.

   CHICAGO-GUN-SUIT (Chicago) _ Mayor Daley of Chicago is preparing
a suit against gun manufacturers, saying they should be held liable
for violence, like tobacco companies for sickness. This comes after
three families file a similar suit against manufacturers in Chicago
and Mayor Rendell's threat to do the same thing in Philadelphia. By
Pam Belluck.

   SCI-BRAIN-EVOLUTION (Undated) _ A new computer model shows that
anthropologists have substantially overestimated the cranial
capacity of the homo sapien forerunner Australopithecus and may
have done so for other types of early man. The finding could force
a revision of the theories of brain evolution. By Nicholas Wade.

   BAPTISTS-DOBSON (Salt Lake City) _ On the final morning of the
Southern Baptist Convention, music evangelist Gary Tarver asked
those in attendance to stand. ``Let's sing the Baptist national
anthem. `Victory in Jesus,''' he said. The moment captured the
triumphalist spirit of this year's meeting, which was notable for
its insistence that evangelical Christianity is the only true
religion, and for its declarations about the role of men and women
that hearken back to an earlier era and stand as both a rejection
of three decades of feminist gains and an assertion that
traditional gender roles conform to biblical requirements. The
8,500 representatives from Southern Baptist churches in 36 states
were encouraged in those stands by James Dobson, president and
founder of Focus on the Family, an independent evangelical
organization based in Colorado Springs, Colo. By Cary McMullen.

   (ART ADV: Photo [NYT20) has been sent to NYT photo clients.)

   NY-BOIES-PROFILE (New York) _ David Boies is the former Cravath,
Swaine &AMP; Moore superstar trial lawyer in the cheap suits and
stretch limousines who has defended some of the biggest legal game
of the last 30 years: IBM in its 13-year fight with the government,
CBS in the libel suit brought by Gen. William Westmoreland, and the
nation's failed savings-and-loans against Michael Milken. Now he is
the chief trial lawyer in the snazziest antitrust lawsuit of the
1990s: United States vs. Microsoft. Tough case? ``Not really,'' he
said. ``To be honest.'' By Elisabeth Bumiller.

   (ART ADV: Photo [NYT18) has been sent to NYT photo clients.)

   NY-YUGO-STUDENTS (New York) _ The assignment was a simple
classroom exercise on immigration, one given to every third grader
at P.S. 290, the Manhattan New School. Each child was to trace his
or her family's arrival in America. Some children told their family
stories by drawing trees, letting the names of relatives dangle
from every branch. Others plastered brightly colored poster board
with family photos. But no one was prepared for 8-year-old Leonela
Rodoncic's picture. On a large white poster board, she drew a
diagram with the names and birth dates of her brother, parents and
grandparents in rectangles along the top. A second row of
rectangles she reserved for her uncle and five distant cousins.
Beneath their names, she scrawled: Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead.
Dead. When classmates asked why so many of her relatives were dead,
Leonela offered an answer as stark as the drawing: ``There was a
war in my country,'' the former Yugoslavia. By Nicohole M.
Christian.

   (ART ADV: Photos [NYT16,17) have been sent to NYT photo
clients.)

   &UR; WASHINGTON _ (Moved in ``w'' category)  &LR;

   NAVY-GAYRIGHTS _ Revisiting the case of Timothy R. McVeigh, the
highly decorated sailor who was investigated by the Navy after he
posted a message in which he described himself as ``gay.'' By
Philip Shenon.

   &UR; BUSINESS DAY _ (Moved in ``f'' category)  &LR;

   ASIA-GLOOM (Hong Kong) _ That the Asian financial crisis is
mutating into the Asian recession is not a surprise, but the depth
of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and the gloom that
suffuses the region have surprised even the pessimists. By Mark
Landler.

   (ART ADV: Chart has been sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   LICENSING-AD-COLUMN _ Say hello to Coca-Cola Picnic Barbie. Then
there is the Jeep bicycle, the Sara Lee Kahlua Mudslide cheesecake
and the Chevrolet running shoe. Soon to be presented to the
American consumer: the Harley-Davidson armchair. Corporations have
seized upon brand licensing to promote their products beyond the
usual showrooms or supermarket shelves. By Constance L. Hays.

   (ART ADV: Graphic has been sent to NYT graphics clients. Photo
[NYT14) has been sent to NYT photo clients.)

   ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE _ What's behind the declining value of
membership in traditional financial enclaves? Consolidation among
exchanges, languishing stock prices and falling commodity prices,
which if persistent could foreshadow a decline in future trading
volume, are among the factors pushing down seat prices _ sometimes
viewed as an indicator of market sentiment. But perhaps the biggest
concern is the rise of electronic trading. By David Barboza.

   (ART ADV: Graphic has been sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   EMPLOYEE-STOCK _ Three years after accounting rulemakers shied
away from a plan that would have limited the issuance of stock
options, granted mostly to executives they have given preliminary
approval to a proposal that could make it harder for many companies
to sell discounted stock to the rank-and-file. By Melody Petersen.

   &UR; COMMENTARY (Moved in ``k'' category)  &LR;

   BAKER-COLUMN (Undated) _ Russell Baker asks what is it about
lawyers?

   ROSENTHAL-COLUMN (Undated) _ A.M. Rosenthal writes about the
U.N. drug conference.

   &UR; SPORTS (Moved in ``s'' category) &LR;

   GLF-ANDERSON-COLUMN (Harrison, N.Y.) _ Sports of The Times
column on the Buick Classic at Westchester: Even as Davis Love
basks in the memory of his PGA victory in Westchester County last
summer, another back ailment claims a golfing victim as Ernie Els
drops out. By Dave Anderson.

   BKC-RHODEN-COLUMN (New York) _ Sports of The Times column on St.
John's hiring Mike Jarvis as new basketball coach. By William C.
Rhoden.

   &UR; WEEKEND (Moved in ``e'' category) &LR;

   NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER (New York) _ ``Julius Caesar'' makes no
mention of a wino. A Poet, yes; a Soothsayer, of course. But there
is no reference in Shakespeare to a tipsy guy in soiled clothes who
heckles Cassius and wheezes during Marc Antony's funeral oration.
And yet here he was on a recent evening, an attention-drawing
spectator teetering noisily in his cups, stage right, as the actors
in the Expanded Arts theater company's open-air ``Julius Caesar''
on the Lower East Side tried to ignore the interruptions and stay
focused on the re-creation of a 2,000-year-old conspiracy and
assassination. In fact, the intrusions of a city alive are exactly
what one has to expect, even appreciate, when sitting down to
classic drama illuminated only by street lamps, bulbs glowing like
electric pumpkins.

   (ART ADV: Photo [NYT8) has been sent to NYT photo clients.)

   MET-KOREA-GALLERY (New York) _ The new Arts of Korea Gallery at
the Metropolitan Museum is a compact, glowing lantern of a room,
human-scaled and filled with lustrous things. And its opening
brings to successful conclusion the Met's long-held master plan to
gather the major cultures of eastern and southern Asia in a wide
institutional embrace. By Holland Cotter.

   APPLE'S-SAVANNAH (Savannah, Ga.) _ The genius of Savannah lies
in its contradictions. Here is a little city that is positively
Cartesian in the logic of its layout. Yet the rectilinear
regularity never palls, because the streets and parks are shaded by
magnificent live oaks, hung with garlands of Spanish moss. Could
anything be less Cartesian than Spanish moss, with its inescapable
sultry whiff of decadence? A city whose people, rich and poor, are
so steeped in good manners that drivers of garbage trucks wave at
pedestrians as they pass. Yet there is nothing low-key or mannerly
about Savannah's horticultural trademark, the azalea, whose
Technicolor floral eruptions each spring couldn't be brasher. How
lucky Savannah is! Now the question is whether Savannah can survive
its latest stroke of good fortune: John Berendt's vivid portrait of
the city, its glories and its eccentricities, in ``Midnight in the
Garden of Good and Evil,'' published in 1994, which has spent
longer on the best-seller lists than any other nonfiction book. By
R.W. Apple Jr.

   (ART ADV: Locator map has been sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   &UR; NYT News Service &LR;  &QL;
',
			body: '
 PM-BUDGET-NYT 
 (sw) 
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   &UR; For FRIDAY PMs &LR;

   Here are the top news stories from The New York Times News
Service for PMs of Friday, June 12.

   The PMs news desk, 212-556-1927, opens at 7 a.m. Eastern Time.
To get story repeats before this hour call 212-621-1595 for reruns
on AP DataFeatures or 214-980-8305 or 8367 for repeats on UPI
DataNews.

   &UR; INTERNATIONAL _ (Moved in ``i'' category)  &LR;

   KOSOVO-LANDMINES (Kukes, Albania) _ A chilling new element has
become part of the Serbian campaign against ethnic Albanians: Land
mines. By Chris Hedges.

   (ART ADV: Locator map has been sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   IRAN-POLITICS (Cairo, Egypt) _ The start of a public corruption
trial of the mayor of Tehran has helped to turn up the political
temperature in Iran at a time when strains between conservatives
and moderates are on increasingly vivid display. By Douglas Jehl.

   ETHIOPIA-ERITREA (Nairobi, Kenya) _ The undeclared war between
Eritrea and Ethiopia is a bewildering study in contradictions. It
is a war that both heads of state maintain they do not want, set
off by a minor land dispute both sides agree could easily be
settled by historians and cartographical experts. Yet neither Prime
Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia nor President Isaias Afewerki of
Eritrea appears able to stop the bloodshed. By James C. McKinley
Jr.

   (ART ADV: Graphic has been sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   &UR; NATIONAL _ GENERAL (Moved in ``a'' category) &LR;

   REED-POLITICS (Atlanta) _ With the Republican primary season in
full bloom, Ralph Reed and his new consulting firm sit atop the
fault line between the pragmatists and the purists within America's
religious right. By Kevin Sack.

   MAGAZINE-FABRICATION (New York) _ Examining the breadth and
depth of the journalistic fabrications by Stephen Glass, the New
Republic writer whose case has prompted a flurry of soul-searching
in the news media. By Robin Pogrebin.

   CLINTON-JONES (Undated) _ In rejecting a possible settlement of
her sexual misconduct lawsuit against President Clinton, Paula
Jones was warned by her lawyers last August that she was risking
``devastation'' in pursuing a claim that could sully her
reputation. By Francis X. Clines.

   CHICAGO-GUN-SUIT (Chicago) _ Mayor Daley of Chicago is preparing
a suit against gun manufacturers, saying they should be held liable
for violence, like tobacco companies for sickness. This comes after
three families file a similar suit against manufacturers in Chicago
and Mayor Rendell's threat to do the same thing in Philadelphia. By
Pam Belluck.

   SCI-BRAIN-EVOLUTION (Undated) _ A new computer model shows that
anthropologists have substantially overestimated the cranial
capacity of the homo sapien forerunner Australopithecus and may
have done so for other types of early man. The finding could force
a revision of the theories of brain evolution. By Nicholas Wade.

   BAPTISTS-DOBSON (Salt Lake City) _ On the final morning of the
Southern Baptist Convention, music evangelist Gary Tarver asked
those in attendance to stand. ``Let's sing the Baptist national
anthem. `Victory in Jesus,''' he said. The moment captured the
triumphalist spirit of this year's meeting, which was notable for
its insistence that evangelical Christianity is the only true
religion, and for its declarations about the role of men and women
that hearken back to an earlier era and stand as both a rejection
of three decades of feminist gains and an assertion that
traditional gender roles conform to biblical requirements. The
8,500 representatives from Southern Baptist churches in 36 states
were encouraged in those stands by James Dobson, president and
founder of Focus on the Family, an independent evangelical
organization based in Colorado Springs, Colo. By Cary McMullen.

   (ART ADV: Photo [NYT20) has been sent to NYT photo clients.)

   NY-BOIES-PROFILE (New York) _ David Boies is the former Cravath,
Swaine &AMP; Moore superstar trial lawyer in the cheap suits and
stretch limousines who has defended some of the biggest legal game
of the last 30 years: IBM in its 13-year fight with the government,
CBS in the libel suit brought by Gen. William Westmoreland, and the
nation's failed savings-and-loans against Michael Milken. Now he is
the chief trial lawyer in the snazziest antitrust lawsuit of the
1990s: United States vs. Microsoft. Tough case? ``Not really,'' he
said. ``To be honest.'' By Elisabeth Bumiller.

   (ART ADV: Photo [NYT18) has been sent to NYT photo clients.)

   NY-YUGO-STUDENTS (New York) _ The assignment was a simple
classroom exercise on immigration, one given to every third grader
at P.S. 290, the Manhattan New School. Each child was to trace his
or her family's arrival in America. Some children told their family
stories by drawing trees, letting the names of relatives dangle
from every branch. Others plastered brightly colored poster board
with family photos. But no one was prepared for 8-year-old Leonela
Rodoncic's picture. On a large white poster board, she drew a
diagram with the names and birth dates of her brother, parents and
grandparents in rectangles along the top. A second row of
rectangles she reserved for her uncle and five distant cousins.
Beneath their names, she scrawled: Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead. Dead.
Dead. When classmates asked why so many of her relatives were dead,
Leonela offered an answer as stark as the drawing: ``There was a
war in my country,'' the former Yugoslavia. By Nicohole M.
Christian.

   (ART ADV: Photos [NYT16,17) have been sent to NYT photo
clients.)

   &UR; WASHINGTON _ (Moved in ``w'' category)  &LR;

   NAVY-GAYRIGHTS _ Revisiting the case of Timothy R. McVeigh, the
highly decorated sailor who was investigated by the Navy after he
posted a message in which he described himself as ``gay.'' By
Philip Shenon.

   &UR; BUSINESS DAY _ (Moved in ``f'' category)  &LR;

   ASIA-GLOOM (Hong Kong) _ That the Asian financial crisis is
mutating into the Asian recession is not a surprise, but the depth
of the downturn, the difficulty of a recovery and the gloom that
suffuses the region have surprised even the pessimists. By Mark
Landler.

   (ART ADV: Chart has been sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   LICENSING-AD-COLUMN _ Say hello to Coca-Cola Picnic Barbie. Then
there is the Jeep bicycle, the Sara Lee Kahlua Mudslide cheesecake
and the Chevrolet running shoe. Soon to be presented to the
American consumer: the Harley-Davidson armchair. Corporations have
seized upon brand licensing to promote their products beyond the
usual showrooms or supermarket shelves. By Constance L. Hays.

   (ART ADV: Graphic has been sent to NYT graphics clients. Photo
[NYT14) has been sent to NYT photo clients.)

   ELECTRONIC-MARKETPLACE _ What's behind the declining value of
membership in traditional financial enclaves? Consolidation among
exchanges, languishing stock prices and falling commodity prices,
which if persistent could foreshadow a decline in future trading
volume, are among the factors pushing down seat prices _ sometimes
viewed as an indicator of market sentiment. But perhaps the biggest
concern is the rise of electronic trading. By David Barboza.

   (ART ADV: Graphic has been sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   EMPLOYEE-STOCK _ Three years after accounting rulemakers shied
away from a plan that would have limited the issuance of stock
options, granted mostly to executives they have given preliminary
approval to a proposal that could make it harder for many companies
to sell discounted stock to the rank-and-file. By Melody Petersen.

   &UR; COMMENTARY (Moved in ``k'' category)  &LR;

   BAKER-COLUMN (Undated) _ Russell Baker asks what is it about
lawyers?

   ROSENTHAL-COLUMN (Undated) _ A.M. Rosenthal writes about the
U.N. drug conference.

   &UR; SPORTS (Moved in ``s'' category) &LR;

   GLF-ANDERSON-COLUMN (Harrison, N.Y.) _ Sports of The Times
column on the Buick Classic at Westchester: Even as Davis Love
basks in the memory of his PGA victory in Westchester County last
summer, another back ailment claims a golfing victim as Ernie Els
drops out. By Dave Anderson.

   BKC-RHODEN-COLUMN (New York) _ Sports of The Times column on St.
John's hiring Mike Jarvis as new basketball coach. By William C.
Rhoden.

   &UR; WEEKEND (Moved in ``e'' category) &LR;

   NY-OUTDOOR-THEATER (New York) _ ``Julius Caesar'' makes no
mention of a wino. A Poet, yes; a Soothsayer, of course. But there
is no reference in Shakespeare to a tipsy guy in soiled clothes who
heckles Cassius and wheezes during Marc Antony's funeral oration.
And yet here he was on a recent evening, an attention-drawing
spectator teetering noisily in his cups, stage right, as the actors
in the Expanded Arts theater company's open-air ``Julius Caesar''
on the Lower East Side tried to ignore the interruptions and stay
focused on the re-creation of a 2,000-year-old conspiracy and
assassination. In fact, the intrusions of a city alive are exactly
what one has to expect, even appreciate, when sitting down to
classic drama illuminated only by street lamps, bulbs glowing like
electric pumpkins.

   (ART ADV: Photo [NYT8) has been sent to NYT photo clients.)

   MET-KOREA-GALLERY (New York) _ The new Arts of Korea Gallery at
the Metropolitan Museum is a compact, glowing lantern of a room,
human-scaled and filled with lustrous things. And its opening
brings to successful conclusion the Met's long-held master plan to
gather the major cultures of eastern and southern Asia in a wide
institutional embrace. By Holland Cotter.

   APPLE'S-SAVANNAH (Savannah, Ga.) _ The genius of Savannah lies
in its contradictions. Here is a little city that is positively
Cartesian in the logic of its layout. Yet the rectilinear
regularity never palls, because the streets and parks are shaded by
magnificent live oaks, hung with garlands of Spanish moss. Could
anything be less Cartesian than Spanish moss, with its inescapable
sultry whiff of decadence? A city whose people, rich and poor, are
so steeped in good manners that drivers of garbage trucks wave at
pedestrians as they pass. Yet there is nothing low-key or mannerly
about Savannah's horticultural trademark, the azalea, whose
Technicolor floral eruptions each spring couldn't be brasher. How
lucky Savannah is! Now the question is whether Savannah can survive
its latest stroke of good fortune: John Berendt's vivid portrait of
the city, its glories and its eccentricities, in ``Midnight in the
Garden of Good and Evil,'' published in 1994, which has spent
longer on the best-seller lists than any other nonfiction book. By
R.W. Apple Jr.

   (ART ADV: Locator map has been sent to NYT graphics clients.)

   &UR; NYT News Service &LR;  &QL;
'
		}
		

		{
			docNo: ' NYT19980611.0444 ',
			dateTime: ' 1998-06-11 23:53 ',
			header: '
A5821 &Cx1f; taf-z
u a &Cx13;  &Cx11;  BC-OBIT-SOULTANIAN-NYT &LR;      06-11 0316
',
			slug: ' BC-OBIT-SOULTANIAN-NYT ',
			headline: '
SARKIS SOULTANIAN, 57, BILL-MONITORING EXECUTIVE 
',
			trailer: '
   Sarkis Soultanian, who rose to become chairman and chief
executive of a company he first joined as an office boy, died on
June 5 at his home in Franklin Lakes, N.J., of complications from a
heart attack. He was 57.

   The company, National Utility Service in Park Ridge, N.J.,
monitors energy and telecommunications bills for businesses.

   Soultanian was born in Haifa, Israel, to Armenian parents. His
family immigrated to the United States in 1956. After graduating
from Richmond Hill High School in New York, he joined National
Utility Service in 1958 as an office boy, making $45 a week. While
working at the company, he earned an accounting degree from Queens
College in 1965.

   Soultanian lost little time learning the business of finding
mistakes in utility bills and was named an account analyst in 1961.
He became a vice president in 1968 and, the next year, joined the
company's board as its youngest member.

   In 1986, Soultanian became the company's chairman and president.
He bought the company from the founder's family in 1990 and nearly
tripled the company's revenues. Both of Soultanian's sons are
executives of National Utility.

   Soultanian was also active in the Armenian Church, serving as
the chairman of the parish council of St. Leon Armenian Church in
Fair Lawn, N.J., for several years.

   He also served as a trustee of the Armenian Church Endowment
Fund of America and the Armenian Assembly of America.

   Soultanian is survived by his wife of 35 years, Takouhy; two
sons, Richard, of Basking Ridge, N.J., and Gary, of Mahwah, N.J.;
one brother, David, of North Haledon, N.J., and three sisters,
Alice Khatcherian, Lucine Sinainan and Asdghig Sarkisian, all of
New York.
',
			body: '


  
 (ATTN: N.J., Israel)  (lb) 
 By REED ABELSON   
 c.1998 N.Y. Times News Service   

',
			paragraphs: '
   Sarkis Soultanian, who rose to become chairman and chief
executive of a company he first joined as an office boy, died on
June 5 at his home in Franklin Lakes, N.J., of complications from a
heart attack. He was 57.

   The company, National Utility Service in Park Ridge, N.J.,
monitors energy and telecommunications bills for businesses.

   Soultanian was born in Haifa, Israel, to Armenian parents. His
family immigrated to the United States in 1956. After graduating
from Richmond Hill High School in New York, he joined National
Utility Service in 1958 as an office boy, making $45 a week. While
working at the company, he earned an accounting degree from Queens
College in 1965.

   Soultanian lost little time learning the business of finding
mistakes in utility bills and was named an account analyst in 1961.
He became a vice president in 1968 and, the next year, joined the
company's board as its youngest member.

   In 1986, Soultanian became the company's chairman and president.
He bought the company from the founder's family in 1990 and nearly
tripled the company's revenues. Both of Soultanian's sons are
executives of National Utility.

   Soultanian was also active in the Armenian Church, serving as
the chairman of the parish council of St. Leon Armenian Church in
Fair Lawn, N.J., for several years.

   He also served as a trustee of the Armenian Church Endowment
Fund of America and the Armenian Assembly of America.

   Soultanian is survived by his wife of 35 years, Takouhy; two
sons, Richard, of Basking Ridge, N.J., and Gary, of Mahwah, N.J.;
one brother, David, of North Haledon, N.J., and three sisters,
Alice Khatcherian, Lucine Sinainan and Asdghig Sarkisian, all of
New York.
'
		}
		
